I hate you so much, I can't understand you. I'm sorry I can't understand you.
actually there no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
What are the advantages of walking distance over time?
i am starting now programming the ai. which can conduct standardized conversation, also watch a movie with his opposite and talk about it, for example. it can also answer personal questions, use language similarly and also mimic opinions and reactions.
identity and humanity are two quite contested frames. they are explored, also in an artistic manner.
i don't choose to become a photographer, i am an artist but photographer has become the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (freie kunst) which is not explicitly a photography class. He slacky’s teaching is always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
as i am working with questions and issues related to our current everyday life, i always need to have one foot in this daily world.
i would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
here is my new first sketch, i am still thinking about doors in the background where the mannequins can come and leave but maybe they can just come from the side, we will see.
at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an open class freie kunst, which is not explicitly a photography class. the focus in gurskys teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
i am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills.
to me technology i a tool to transfer a content into an art piece, so if i have an idea in mind a content for an art piece i am searching for the strongest medium to form that content.
in short, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
as i’m becoming more and more aware of how difficult and intense this piece is, i want to ask you if you want to work with that piece. i think it is hard to handle but i am sure we can do that and it will be really a new step, but could be a bit forcing.
in recent years, though, interventions in the human body by technology and medicine have taken on a new quality, and as a result the question of the boundaries of the human has acquired an alarming prominence. in its extreme forms, or in visionary concepts, the classical human–machine opposition has been morphed into a hybrid form that focuses attention on the question of where humanity’s borders lie.
the illusion that the viewer and especially the art buyer, who has no rules or limits in dealing with the doll (as with any art purchase), is part of the work for me.
My inspirations are the daily life and experiences from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
gursky teached me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics i was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece? he forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually.
the production is quite intense but really good and we are nearly at the end of the hardware, this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, i am trying no to plan how to handle this one.
of course you can use my work, i think it looks really great!!! thank you so much for choosing my image that is a big honour for me in that huge context. can you sent me some invitations when they are printed?
i was interested in the line between imagination and reality. what kind of image you fill in a person, how big is the part of imagination while the digital and the virtual are reshaping our individuality and behavioral patterns.
first of all i have to say that i was very happy about the invitation from you to be part of the show. i like your project very much!
my starting point for a work is not a medium, but a particular content or question. the medium is always related to the content of the work, so im always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with. there is not really one medium i prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end.
for me, the different levels of communication are the main topic of the series. the question has always been, is digital communication something different than a real, face-to-face communication between human beings?
I am happy to have your project come to IFMA 2013 and i like the project very much.
i was very intensively busy with my portrait project, which means, i prepared the ai with answering questions about me, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with.
so i decided not to take a fictional person but myself. what exactly does it do to me and how much is this copy me. since these artificial persons will have a different form of existence based on me. a form that will act differently, think and experience other things.
My inspirations are life. what I did in life, newspapers, books and journals.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
the avatar is a digital identity, as i am dealing a lot with communication and digital communication in my work, mostly the question how the way of communication affected us and what is the meaning of the way we use to communicate. to make situation of communication visual i used mannequins, because the avatar is actually nothing really visual for me. i decided to use mannequins because i want to have the questions i am dealing with in my work generalized and not connected to one special person or me.
