I am sorry! I don't understand you
i always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was logical step to study art and make art.
walking distance is always time distance as well and everyone finds it fascinating how trails and then routes are established, how grass and vegetation overall are displaced over time. many people choose an efficient and rational, normally the shortest route between two points, a line which remains visible after a while – like ant trail in the forest.
I didn't get the images can you send them to me again? oh and here some images of my recent show in Berlin opened last week?
i didn’t choose to become a photographer, i am an artist. but of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (freie kunst) which is not explicitly a photography class. the focus in gursky’s teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
i didn’t choose to become a photographer, i am an artist. but of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (freie kunst), which is not explicitly a photography class. the focus in gursky’s teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
the human body is the smallest room you as an individual have to deal with. this room is set in the space around you, what is impact you have on the outside and of others. i choose the present and the absent of the body because i think this is one of the most changing and stabile topics at the same time in our society at the same time.
for the body, i did a one on one body scan, lost 10 kilos in 10 weeks for that from that scan and several detail photos of my body, the company will work on the rooter and the body. this will be the visual quality of the whole body and also skin will be quite real.
here is my new first sketch, i am still thinking about doors in the background where the mannequins can come and leave but perhaps they can just come from the side, we will see.
kunstakademie düsseldorf was where bernd and hilla becher led a class (just like gursky today) and established what became the so-called becher or düsseldorf photo school. in their class were artists like laurenz berges, andreas gursky, candida höfer, axel hütte, thomas ruff, jörg sasse, thomas struth, so it is obviously
Also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human. sound strange but this is floating a lot.
i dont see my self as a photographer, but to me this medium is one of the most interesting arenas, because photography gets more and more fluid. my starting point for a work is not a medium, but a particular content or question. thus for me the step from photography to video loops, which i have included in several projects, was a logical move, not really a switch between mediums.
actually there no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
i am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills.
my works are dealt with the future of human body, in terms of technical and medical progress and emotions as the question of relationships and love.
today we are routinely talking to avatars, bots and human beings. what is the difference, in terms of quality of the conversation, realness, importance and exchange this is a question i am frequently dealing with in my work.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
gursky teached me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics i was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece. he forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually.
I would suggest to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
i have no idea if that is common or not. since i have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work i needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way.
Real bodies (i.e., real people) are eliminated via a (digital) remote control. for the operator, the effects of individual action are thus virtualized and trivialized in the starkest contrast to the real effects on real people being killed or injured.
i would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention.
I always try to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with so I’m always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with. there is no one medium i prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end.
no, i‘m not. for me, the different levels of communication are the main topic of the series. the question has always been, is digital communication something different than a real, face-to-face communication between human beings?
first of all i have to say that i was very happy about the invitation from you to be part of the show. i like your project very much!
i was very intensively busy with my portrait project, which means, i prepared the ai with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with.
What she says when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, absorbs the influences of the world. possible that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also don't know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me. it's a lot about splitting off and approaching one's own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
i work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our lifes
i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
