my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books. today we are routinely talking to avatars, bots and human beings. what is the difference, in terms of quality of the conversation, realness, importance and exchange this is a question i am frequently dealing with in my work.
i work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our lifes
you know a conversation is related to persons, so to human beings, to feelings, experiences, to the subconscious and to so much more, so it is about giving something and getting something back.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books. this work grew out of the question of whether a conversation is a real conversation when you have it with a bot, and not with a human being.
i build a space like we have in the real world because i wanted to have this border between digital and real, behind the door of the room you can see just white like, that is because i cannot define the virtual and the digital space right now, we have other rules in the virtual space, in terms of architecture every role is not valid, statics, weight and material is not ruled anymore, body dimension as well.
i build a space like we have in the real world because i wanted to have this border between digital and real, behind the door of the room you can see just white like, that is because i cannot define the virtual and the digital space right now, we have other rules in the virtual space, in terms of architecture every role is not valid, statics, weight and material is not ruled anymore, body dimension as well.
since i have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work i needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way. i have no idea if that is common or not.
i have no idea if that is common or not. since i have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work i needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way.
in my work i am dealing with the human body, its borders, and identity nowadays. most recently, my preoccupation with the human body and human communication has led me to sculptures of sex doll shells
most of my pieces are dealing with the question of human communication and interaction in our recent world and the digital world. i came up with this idea last year during my research about futurism and the question how people will interact and live together.
i am questioning topics like closeness and intimacy by focusing on the digital realm as it sets the terms for development and changes our way of thinking and behaving. my work deals with intimacy in that it searches for it in the digital realm.
my works are dealt with the future of human body, in terms of technical and medical progress and emotions as the question of relationships and love. my work is dealing with communication and emotion in our age.
my works are dealt with the future of human body, in terms of technical and medical progress and emotions as the question of relationships and love.
the emptiness of these bodies, and the line between a unique for someone made fake person and mass production. i am interested in conceptual questions of a more general nature; about how to deal with this kind of being in between worlds with their different definitions and rules.
i think there are several artist inspiring me, bruce nauman, is very important for me, as sigmar polke, hans bellmer, but also leonardo da vinci, andreas gursky, wolfgang tillmans, oskar schlemmer, barbara kruger. bellmer and cindy sherman have been especially important for my series. but the most important influence is oskar schlemmer and his theories about the ideal human in space.
for me, its a lot about splitting off and approaching ones own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself. i am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills. to me this is really interesting at the moment we have so much changes and developments people are in between attraction, fear and need.
actually there no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
the possibility that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also do not know who or what happens to me in life and as i am working with questions and issues related to our current everyday life, i always need to have one foot in this daily world.
gursky teached me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics i was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece. the focus in gurskys teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
identity and humanity are two quite contested frames. they are explored, also in an artistic manner.
mannequins are place holders for human beings in my work as in real life. as i work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our lifes.
a form that will act differently, think and experience other things. which can conduct standardized conversation. conversations she has when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, changes with and absorbs the influences of the world. the possibility that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also do not know who or what happens to me in life
this is the space between the real and the digital world. it is again connect to ai and digital life as many more topic. something related to the human being but not being human. i am discussing where human beings find their self in the digital and real world.
especially the emotional and the question of how i deal with artificiality in my life is one that i would like to bring to the fore here, alongside questions of author theory and institutional critique. the question has always been, is digital communication something different than a real, face-to-face communication between human beings
with the issues of how our daily lives and society more generally is affected by technology
i wanted to scratch this border and bring myself in the situation of meeting a bot. from an artistic research about the borders of human relationships now a days what changed during the last years and how are we integrate artificiality and absence in our way of thinking, treating and interacting.
for me, the different levels of communication are the main topic. since i have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work i needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way. i am questioning topics like closeness and intimacy by focusing on the digital realm as it sets the terms for development and changes our way of thinking and behaving.
today it is obvious that the digital realm changes our way of dealing with each other, in both positive and negative ways. and this is what i am trying figure out: what does this change mean to us, and how does it transform the manner in which human beings are dealing with each other.
the issues of how our daily lives and society more generally is affected by technology. to me it is comparable to social media, the digital world makes emptiness to a volume.
i am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills.
i was interested in the line between imagination and reality. what kind of image you fill in a person, how big is the part of imagination i saw the border in the production moulds of sex dolls, these edge between the part where the material for the body will be filled in and the frame which holds the two mould together.
düsseldorf and its surrounding cities are saturated with many artists who live in the area. the interdisciplinary discourse that arises when you bring together artists working in many different ways and mediums is more than enriching.
at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an open class freie kunst, which is not explicitly a photography class. the focus in gurskys teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
kunstakademie düsseldorf is where bernd and hilla becher led a class just like gursky today and established what became the so-called becher or düsseldorf photo school. in their class were artists like laurenz berges, andreas gursky, candida höfer, axel hütte, thomas ruff, jörg sasse, thomas struth, so it is obviously one of the best places to study if your work has anything to do with photography.
i build a space like we have in the real world because i wanted to have this border between digital and real. i see my work more and more questioning the world and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided into series and pieces as a part of the whole thing.
gursky teached me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics i was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece. he forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually.
i am starting now programming the ai. which can conduct standardized conversation, also watch a movie with his opposite and talk about it, for example. it can also answer personal questions, use language similarly and also mimic opinions and reactions.
i work with installation, video, sculpture and performance as well, and this was one of the reasons i wanted to work with andreas gursky. my starting point for a work is not a medium, but a particular content or question.
questioning and reflecting on digital communication and our digital identities, i am questioning topics like closeness and intimacy by focusing on the digital realm as it sets the terms for development and changes our way of thinking and behaving.
about the borders of human relationships now a days what changed during the last years and how are we integrate artificiality and absence in our way of thinking, treating and interacting.
through an ai-algorihim the mannequin will start to talk to you, it gets his information from the internet, so it can ask and answer question it will be quite close to a normal conversation. the mind should be an ai based on personal data and information about me as an artist and as a person and it should develop further by information from the internet and again the conversation the roboter has.
as i work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our lifes. the step to think about a robotic and artificial intelligent counterpart was quite small. from this point, however, i thought that an abstract counterpart is still relatively easy to deal with, for me a personal depth was missing, what exactly does it do to you when you copy a person technologically
i was interested in the line between imagination and reality. what kind of image you fill in a person, how big is the part of imagination while the digital and the virtual are reshaping our individuality and behavioral patterns.
so i decided not to take a fictional person but myself. what exactly does it do to me and how much is this copy me. since these artificial persons will have a different form of existence based on me. a form that will act differently, think and experience other things.
the production is quite intense but really good and we are nearly at the end of the hardware, all good in time and very close on the details and measurements also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human, sound strange but this is floating a lot.
this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, i am trying no to plan how to handle this one. i tried to divide the process in 3 phases. phase 1 was preparation which is now done, also i did several notes and interviews with my assistant during this phase to follow the different thought and changes you went thought during this process. phase two will be the production; i hope this will be the easiest part.
for the body, i did a one on one body scan, lost 10 kilos in 10 weeks for that from that scan and several detail photos of my body, the company will work on the rooter and the body. this will be the visual quality of the whole body and also skin will be quite real.
i am interested in avatars, as the digital identity of a human being, something which does not have a physical body. identity and humanity are two quite contested frames. to me, as an artist, it is important to include a contemporary feeling of these terms in my work.
this work grew out of the question of whether a conversation is a real conversation when you have it with a bot, and not with a human being. a bot is not related to a person; it forms its answers and questions out of algorithms, not of interests or intentions.
i think it is hard to handle but i am sure we can do that
the production is quite intense but really good and we are nearly at the end of the hardware, all good in time and very close on the details and measurements also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human, sound strange but this is floating a lot.
this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, i am trying no to plan how to handle this one. i tried to divide the process in 3 phases. phase 1 was preparation which is now done
this is my most mentally and physically challenging project i think it is hard to handle but i am sure we can do that. for the body, i did a one on one body scan, lost 10 kilos in 10 weeks for that from that scan and several detail photos of my body.
the production is quite intense but really good and we are nearly at the end of the hardware, all good in time and very close on the details and measurements also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human
this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, i am trying no to plan how to handle this one. i tried to divide the process in 3 phases. phase 1 was preparation which is now done. phase two will be the production; i hope this will be the easiest part.
the production is quite intense but really good and we are nearly at the end of the hardware, this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, i am trying no to plan how to handle this one.
see my work more and more questioning the world and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided into series and pieces as a part of the whole thing. today it is obvious that the digital realm changes our way of dealing with each other, in both positive and negative ways. and this is what i am trying figure out: what does this change mean to us, and how does it transform the manner in which human beings are dealing with each other.
when i start working on a new piece, i always start with a specific question or content i need to deal with. i am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills.
i am an artist based in germany and working in new media as video and vr but also in photography and sculpture. most of my pieces are dealing with the question of human communication and interaction in our recent world and the digital world.
the new sculptures came from an artistic research about the borders of human relationships now a days what changed during the last years and how are we integrate artificiality and absence in our way of thinking, treating and interacting. that leads me to sex dolls and the question of an image your counterpart has to fit in.
the illusion that the viewer and especially the art buyer, who has no rules or limits in dealing with the doll as with any art purchase, is part of the work for me. also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human, sound strange but this is floating a lot.
i work with installation, video, sculpture and performance as well, and this was one of the reasons i wanted to work with andreas gursky. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an open class freie kunst, which is not explicitly a photography class.
most recently, my preoccupation with the human body and human communication has led me to sculptures of sex doll shells, in my current exhibition in berlin, the emotional negotiation of these empty bodies in particular has continued for me. the imprint of a reborn was added and i was very happy about the moving, deep conversations on the opening weekend.
i see my work more and more questioning the world and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided into series and pieces as a part of the whole thing.
to me technology i a tool to transfer a content into an art piece, so if i have an idea in mind a content for an art piece i am searching for the strongest medium to form that content. i build a space like we have in the real world because i wanted to have this border between digital and real  we have other rules in the virtual space, in terms of architecture every role is not valid, statics, weight and material is not ruled anymore, body dimension as well.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books. here some ideas of inspiration and what the roboter and ai will do or better what i would think would be amazing.
my first solo show, a virtual reality piece with a new company in london called acute art, https:acuteart.com.
i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
i think that is important know and to understand the development of the becher school and the next generation which i am a part of. the way of production of bernd an hilla becher,then how they teach, how the düsseldorf school came up, what kind of production do we see and how do they work and how they find their inspiration.
since some weeks i am in a quite intense production of a new work when i start working on a new piece, i always start with a specific question or content i need to deal with.
my starting point for a work is not a medium, but a particular content or question. the medium is always related to the content of the work, so im always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with. there is not really one medium i prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end.
but of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. i work with installation, video, sculpture and performance as well, and this was one of the reasons i wanted to work with andreas gursky.
i dont see my self as a photographer, but to me this medium is one of the most interesting arenas, because photography gets more and more fluid. my starting point for a work is not a medium, but a particular content or question. thus for me the step from photography to video loops, which i have included in several projects, was a logical move, not really a switch between mediums.
gursky and ruff are still references in terms of what can photography be and how can i use it to get the image i need for the content of my pieces. the project gliedermensch 2017 is also a direct reference to art and photography history as an attempt to question continuity related to new notions about the role and function of machines in our times. the central reference for that series was the romantic author heinrich von kleists essay on the marionette theater.
i would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention.
i was very concentrated in working in my studio and preparing everything for the next exhibitions. i hope to expand my skills in terms of research, media and content, finding new questions about the world we are living in and how we are dealing with it, during our time.
i would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
in addition to that i am part of the culture delegation of the german foreign minister and will travel with him to washington in two week to open the german year in america, another thing i am so looking forward to, it is pretty exciting to get an impression of these political environment.
i am quite free its nice when you realize that works can move.
what exactly does it do to me and how much is this copy me. for me, its a lot about splitting off and approaching ones own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
since i have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work i needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way.
as this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, i am trying no to plan how to handle this one.
it is a quite intense project dealing with german history, it ranges from the first world war to the current syrian war, since the chemical weapons of the assad regime, whose production is still trying to build on german knowledge.
i am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills.
because i like that the picture is generated from the world we are existing in. from this basis of that real photograph i am working through my questions, and transform the image into that question.
he forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually.
now i am waning for the museums in germany to open again, actually the opening would be today, now i hope it will be open soon.
today we are routinely talking to avatars, bots and human beings. what is the difference, in terms of quality of the conversation, realness, importance and exchange this is a question i am frequently dealing with in my work.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
i want it to be as close as possible to my own personality, so it can also answer personal questions, use language similarly and also mimic opinions and reactions.
as i work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our lifes. the step to think about a robotic and artificial intelligent counterpart was quite small.
however, i thought that an abstract counterpart is still relatively easy to deal with, for me a personal depth was missing, what exactly does it do to you when you copy a person technologically
so far a relatively ambitious project where the technology must be very precise. the body is a on a 3d scan of my body based the body. the mind should be an ai based on personal data and information about me as an artist and as a person and it should develop further by information from the internet and again the conversation the roboter has.
i am now working on a list where to show and if that is possible, some are quite afraid of the piece, others are total oppressed but the time is a bit forcing.
as im becoming more and more aware of how difficult and intense this piece is i think it is hard to handle but i am sure we can do that
i am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills.
as i am working with questions and issues related to our current everyday life, i always need to have one foot in this daily world.
i prepared the ai with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with.
conversations she has when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, changes with and absorbs the influences of the world. the possibility that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also do not know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me.
for me, its a lot about splitting off and approaching ones own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
especially since these artificial persons will have a different form of existence based on me. a form that will act differently, think and experience other things.
i want it to be as close as possible to my own personality, so it can also answer personal questions, use language similarly and also mimic opinions and reactions. the possibility that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also do not know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me.
for me, its a lot about splitting off and approaching ones own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself. i was interested in the line between imagination and reality.
