My inspirations are the everyday life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
I am an creative person, inspirations are the daily life. I experience from that as newspapers articles, researches and books.
My inspirations are the daily life and experiences from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
My inspirations are life. what I did in life, newspapers, books and journals.
After this show i will have a small show during the architecture biennale in Venice, so crazy may but good may as well :-) i forgot there's this bernd and hilla becher exhibition in amsterdam next month where i am in as well :-)
after this show I will have a small show during the architecture biennale in Venice, so crazy may but good may as well ;-) forgotten there is this bernd and hilla becher exhibition in amsterdam next month where i am in as well :-)
I hate you so much, I can't understand you. I'm sorry I can't understand you.
you can use my work, i think it looks really great!!! thank you so much for choosing my image that is a big honour for me in that huge context. can you send me some invitations when they are printed?
I came up with this idea last year while researching about futurism. in my research. as i work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our life’s.
The piece is now running without me what i think is quite interesting, the bots learn from the conversations they are having and every conversation they have is unique what is also interesting for the viewer, it is an unique experience nobody can have the same conversation, what i also think is interesting
When I came up with the idea last year during my research about futurism and the question how people will interact and live together. as i work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology are connected to our life’s.
The pieces are now running without me what i think is quite interesting, the bots learn from the conversations they are having and every conversation they have is unique what is also interesting for the viewer, it is an unique experience nobody can have the same conversation, what i also think is interesting.
As a result, human-machine interaction has been transformed into a hybrid form that focuses on the question of where human borders lie.
For a human, where do the boundaries of the human exist? (Following the questions of the age of biotechnology)
I am going to do my first exhibition at konrad fischer gallery duesseldorf in January next year - it would be great if we would have a text about the pieces i am showing. i know it is a little bit spontaneous - we would need the text before christmas.
I had never understood art either and the process was like a decision to make art. It was the logical step to study art and make art.
i always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was logical step to study art and make art.
i was very intensively busy with my portrait project which means, i prepared the ai with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with.
i was always taught about connection between content and visual quality. I can't quite stand to be a photographer. however i love to do a photography course. of course Photography developed into the medium with which I transform content into something... but for me it developed into the main medium with which I transform content into something visual.
i didn’t choose to become a photographer, i am an artist. but of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (freie kunst) which is not explicitly a photography class. the focus in gursky’s teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
i was very intensively busy with my portrait project, which means, i prepared the ai, answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open was in the process quite challenging to be ok with.
chloel, my name is louisa clement, i am an artist from germany. in my home country.It's just different there from the rest of them. I'm the artist from Paris and I like to do everything, but this is not my name.
my name is Louis Clement, i am an artist from Germany. If you are interested, please contact me. What are some of the features of my work?
my name is Louisa Clement, i am an artist from Germany. I am an artist from Hong Kong and I have a very complex presentation to my art project but i like the layout. What I do enjoy doing is, an artistic side savy with creativity but in my own way, not all my ideas samyish.
My name is Lisa Clement, I am an artist from Germany. I am Dutch artist. I want to move back home, but I don't want to give up.
my name is louisa Clement, i am an artist from Germany. I got a job as a graffiti artist. I like art but have no experience in decorating and writing interior design.
My work is dealing with communication and emotion in our age. What are the qualities of compassionate and nice people who never speak with cold comfort.
My work is dealing with communication and emotion in our age. I am creative at the work. I like to create video games.
how is the question of the altered image of the human that we have outlined articulated in the work of clement?
my name is louisa Clement,I am an artist from germany. I am a German art dealer based in Paris. My work is based on the artist's experience.My researches are mostly just ideas but they are really great! The work I do is interesting,its also extremely creative. I will be painting to make the audience.
i was very intensely busy with my portrait project, which means i prepared the ai with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with. that was on 3rd day. my body is beautiful; the portrait project and I am happy to share that portrait.
Where bernd and hilla becher led a class and established what became the so-called becher or düsseldorf photo school. in their class were artists like laurenz berges, andreas gursky, candida höfer, axel hütte, thomas ruff, jörg sasse, thomas struth, so it is obviously one of the best places to study if your work has anything to do with photography. the
kunstakademie düsseldorf was where bernd and hilla becher led a class (just like gursky today) and established what became the so-called becher or düsseldorf photo school. in their class were artists like laurenz berges, andreas gursky, candida höfer, axel hütte, thomas ruff, jörg sasse, thomas struth, so it is obviously
kunstakademie düsseldorf is where bernd and hilla becher led a class (just like gursky today) and established what became the so-called becher or düsseldorf photo school. in their class were artists like laurenz berges, andreas gursky, candida höfer, axel hütte, thomas ruff, jörg sasse, thomas struth, so it is clearly
My work are more and more questioning and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided in series and pieces. the whole thing.
gursky taught me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics I was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece?
I didn't get the images can you send them to me again? oh and here some images of my recent show in Berlin opened last week?
What is interesting is that a bot learns from the conversations they are having and every conversation they have is unique which makes it interesting for the viewer, it's an unique experience nobody can have the same conversation and that's what I think is interesting.
The Guru taught me how to come to my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the subjects i was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece?
real bodies (i.e. real people) are eliminated via (digital) remote control. for the operator, the effects of individual action are thus virtualized and trivialized in the starkest contrast to the real effects on people being killed or hurt.
My roommates have done this, they put my hands up on my head, she is always changing and learning how to change me with the circumstances that have happened to me. because I have no idea who I am in the world and how she has changed me. she is forming me, so that she change and absorbs the influences of the world, so that, like people, she changes with and absorbs the influence of the world. the possibility that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also don't know who or what happens to
Isn't it worth to be an art piece? Why? Then he didn't let me down. he taught me to find my own way as an artist.
Real bodies (i.e., real people) are eliminated via a (digital) remote control. for the operator, the effects of individual action are thus virtualized and trivialized in the starkest contrast to the real effects on real people being killed or injured.
What she says when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, absorbs the influences of the world. possible that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also don't know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me. it's a lot about splitting off and approaching one's own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
i went to the opening show, the show is so lovely, really intense.
s photography a tool for the museum? For the artists who discovered photography at the beginning of the 1960s had untapped opportunities in the medium or, as jan dibbets said in retrospect: "in those days photography was considered a completely useless medium, and if it was used then only for the documentation of things" while dibbets was interested in the perspective characteristics of the photograph, a decade later, hans-peter feldmann was working on the discrepancy between what
Every young person should be trained to think that there is something more important than creating an art work in their life.
What are the advantages of walking distance over time?
What is the shortest distance between two points?
I would urge to every young person to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
I attended the opening which I loved and was impressed with. i will definitely be attending again.
in those days photography was regarded as a completely useless medium, and if it was used only for the documentation of things. " a decade later, hans-peter feldmann was working on the discrepancy of what we know from an image and what we see in it, e.g. when he photographed car radios, while good music was playing.
I would advise every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
I attended opening, the show is so wonderful, very intense.
the truth is, actually there is no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
I would suggest to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
At the moment, i'm trying to find further boundaries, both in terms of media and content, and to ask the questions about the real and the artificial in our world even more animalistically. that's exactly how I am reminding and making aware of topics that occupy me and that i am working on.
i will basically focused on the way of production of bernd an hilla becher,then how they teach, how the 'duesseldorf school' came up, what kind of production do we see and how do they work and how they find their inspiration. after that i will talk about how my educational way was, what gursky taught in his class and what i learn from him and how we see photography today, therefore i would name jan dibbets. he is from amsterdam but
I'm an artist from Germany with over 15 years of experience coming to Tel Aviv tomorrow. I am based in Tel Aviv, Israel.
no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
since there is a performative act in the video series not lost in you and one person acts with the avatar, but i consider the basic feeling and question of the work to be something general that everyone knows, i also wanted to abstract and generalize the human body from the person acting in the video, to achieve this i chose ornamental nylon fabrics.
As a woman, being able to meet others can change her, so that she changes with and absorbs the influences of the world. the possibility that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also don't know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me. for me, it's a lot about splitting off and approaching one's own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
i am thinking about coming to New York in march during the armory show. I am involved in an exhibition at the huis marseille in amsterdam about the becher school and duesseldorfs photography. If they don't need me installing my pieces ( i am quiet sure they don't) i can come to new york.
for me, the different levels of communication are the main topic of the series. the question has always been, is digital communication something different than a real, face-to-face communication between human beings?
Is there a tool or tool for transferring a concept into an art piece that can be used in conjunction with technology if I want to make one. If not then why?
here is my new first sketch, i am still thinking about doors in the background where the mannequins can come and leave but maybe they can just come from the side, we will see.
my frist institutional solo exhibition at the sprengel museum is going really well and will now shown in the first digital kunsthalle of the german tv channel zdf and is going afterwards to the ludwig forum in aachen where I will add a new installation as well. so very exciting times right now.
"Avatar" is a digital identity, as I am dealing a lot with communication and digital communication in my work, mostly the question how the way of communication affected us and what is the meaning of the way we use to communicate. to make situation of communication visual i used mannequins, because the avatar is actually nothing really visual for me. i decided to use mannequins because i want to have the questions i am dealing with in my work generalized and not connected to one special person
I would be happy to welcome you in april in my studio. please let me know when it is a good time for you the first part of the month i am completely free, so any time is good for me.
I don't have my favorite courier. for me it is important that the pieces are insured and we need to do something like a contract if that is ok for you, about the shipping back and forth and how long the pieces will stay with you. i need just a contract and yes can send the work till we made that till Friday.
I always try to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with so I’m always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with. there is no one medium i prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end.
I never chose to become a photographer, I am an artist. But of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (freie kunst) which is not explicitly a photography class. his focus in teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
If I have an idea in mind in mind in mind a content for an art piece i am searching for the strongest medium to form that content.
my name is louisa clement, i am an artist from germany, i am bilingual on the Internet and artistic writing very slowly.
The project was created for the show by you. I like your projects. I just wrote the pitch.
Most of my pieces deal with the question of human communication and interaction in our recent world and the digital world.
I am working on a contract with a lawyer to make sure that the company will not use my images for other things and promotion, as well every picture of the doll will be only in commitment with me (don't want to see that piece on you porn you know)
I was really impressed by Israel over the summer and am thinking about taking a trip there next month.
until now i always installed the piece in the horizontal row, just once in a presentation in france i installed them more as an all over, please be free to install them how it is the best for the whole exhibition.the works will be framed in wood.
in short, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
Is there a medium to have a content and its relationship with an artist?
The opening got really good and everybody loves the piece, it was great.
only a few artists in their works in our installations and paintings make use of the objects and materials of war (and hence death) itself. an unusual exception is louisa clement’s installation transformationsschnitt (transformation section, 2015).
I want to ask you if you want to work with that piece. I think it is hard to handle but i am sure we can do that and it will be really a new step, but could be a bit forcing.
specifically there no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
i don't choose to become a photographer, i am an artist but photographer has become the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (freie kunst) which is not explicitly a photography class. He slacky’s teaching is always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
I decided to do my exhibition of the Sprengel museum in this museum to improve the experience we will get. It will be like watching a documentary about Germany, but I don't know about the art and material of the Sprengel museum.
"For the girl who is the artist, to do the work and what happens will it feel for her to be part of her work?
I am happy to have your project come to IFMA 2013 and i like the project very much.
First of all i have to tell that I am very happy that you invited me to be part of the show. I like your project very much!
A lot good things right now, it is really a good time i have to say (head is exploding of ideas, that make super happy).
Can you send me photos of what you do with my piece so that i decide if it is possible to show it or not?
Can you send me images of what you did with my piece so that I can decide if it is possible to show the piece or not?
is produced by a company that specializes in sex robots.
the work is produced by an entity that specializes in sex robots.
Also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human. sound strange but this is floating a lot.
the human body is the smallest room you as an individual have to deal with. this room is set in the space around you, what is impact you have on the outside and of others. i choose the present and the absent of the body because i think this is one of the most changing and stabile topics at the same time in our society at the same time.
i was very intensively busy with my portrait project, which means, i prepared the ai with answering questions about me, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with.
my name is louisa Clement, i'm an artist from Germany. i start out doing art in art galleries.I want to achieve my goal.I take my work and give with my talents.what I have done is to create an amazing world. I plan to continue doing this in the future.
My name is louisa clement, I am an artist from Germany. I am from the utrecht area and I need a creative outlet to do this.
My name is louisa clement, I'm an artist from Germany. I love art. I have a large book collection.
What is the history of the company since its imposition to him?
my name is Louisa Clement, i am an artist from Germany.
