we decided to do the exhibition at our place at the Riad, opening will be on the 6th of may, so we have our conference at the 7th at ours as well. Everybody is happy with that and starts working. Amine told us yesterday to send a list of things we need: 1 screen earphones 3 projector speakers 5 power mulitplugs 2 Mediaplayer bluetac table. It would be nice if you Sanaa could organise these things for us and let us know when we can start to work with the equipment.
I need a possibility to print ( Amine offered the possibility to print at his office) junior needs to print as well but just 4A format.
It is great to meet you and talk about all the Projects. But on Monday I have to be in Düsseldorf, because i am shortlisted for the art prize of the city. The presentation is on Tuesday, Monday is installing. Would it be possible to meet the Monday After? That would be so Great.
2:30 is great, we can meet in your office, i bring my laptop at the moment there is not that much to see, i am still in production of some piece. but i have everything on my computer.
i am looking forward meeting you next week.
here are some points how the series fit into a lager context, (that is just for you nothing to quote or to print). the heads have a connection to Bernd and Hilla's Bechers topographies or to Hans-Peter Feldmann's way of collecting images, so more or less the conceptual way dealing with photography, but transformed into today. Gursky and Ruff are still references in terms of what can photography be and how can i use it to get the image i need for the content of my pieces. Gursky as well for the questions what are contemporary topics, what is a piece of work and what is not.
the avatars are in the way how they were set in the pictures, more related to Wolfgang Tillmans and his portraits. i am quite bad putting my self in the context. 
I hope you all are well. I just finished my Avatar-Series. The final size of each will be 100 cm x 75 cm. Perhaps we can choose which we want to show and as well with the heads. Do we want to show the whole series or a selection the whole would be 55, could be a lot. I put them in my last exhibition in a tableau.
Great to read that, thank you!
i am very happy that you like the avatar series so much. how much pieces do you think we should show? the series of the heads are 55 ( they are all framed in my studio blocked for our show) so we can show all of them and some of the avatar or a group of the heads and a group of avatars, as you like. perhaps some of these below i think they could work. if you have any other ideas, please let me know or other pieces. do you have a final list of artist also being part of the exhibition?
with Gursky it seems to be a little bit difficult. he isn’t sure about the guest list right now, he thinks about a very small event but will let me know when he decided. He will fly the day after his opening to LA, so he won’t be there for our opening but perhaps he will come around while installing.
i will sent pictures from Berlin, for New York, everything sounds really great thank you a lot. i’ll be on the outlook and looking forward the interview.
The frames Are 39 cm x 27 cm x 3 cm each, i will out them in bubble wrap and in two cartons. The Avatars are 120 cm x 90 cm x 4cm and wrapped in bubble wrap as well. Is that ok?
the NY Times is online.
here my answer to the questions for the catalogue if you have any questions or notes please let me know.
of course, i am very happy if you use one of them!!! you can use the one you like, i am very happy with all of them. the image caption should say: Avatar __, 2016, 116 cm x 86 cm, Inkjetprint and at the card could be important the courtesy which is me and Sprüth Magers.
Yes i have everything! Can i hand it to you tomorrow. I am in Germany right now for a family celebration and return tomorrow.
Anne Marie Bonnet gave me your contact to invite you to my exhibition opening tomorrow at the cité. The opening will be at 19:30 and the show will be on till the 11th of November. Perhaps you find time to have a look. I would Be very happy about that.
thank you Berlin was amazing, a lot but great. Thank you for questioning me, sounds fun i would love to come on the 26th. Perhaps we can meet on Thursday or Friday this week, i am till Wednesday in Paris, today is the opening of my show here and on Saturday i am going to Munich for a week to work on a project for next year. but on Thursday and Friday i m totally free, so just let me know when you have time and i come around.
thank you for the information. I am so looking forward our exhibition, this will be so great! If you need anything else please let me know.
i am coming at the 6th and will stay till the 18th so the reception and artist talk is great for me thank you for organising that. i just booked a room but if you have any place cheaper, please let me know.
Everything is perfect thank you. Of course i will be at the Gallery at Thursday at 10. i am looking forward to!!!!! In the afternoon I have to go to the opening of Gursky, but in the Morning is Great! 
We meet yesterday at the Dinner of Andreas Gursky, who was my teacher at the Academy of Arts in Düsseldorf. I would love to invite you to my Exhibition opening Next Tuesday at Stella Rays Project Space. Above you can find the invitation, the Website to the show and my Website as well. Hopefully See you there!
it was very nice to meet you and your wife yesterday at the opening I hope you had a nice evening. As promised I sent you pictures of the whole series of the heads and the Avatars. Below the link to my website were you can see more works. If you are interested in buying here is the contact of Ludmilla Lancés who is working with me at Sprüth Magers in Berlin at the moment. And if that is ok for you I would love to inform you about my exhibitions and keep you informed about my work, I hope we stay in contact.
great choice, I am very happy that you are interested in the work, I talked to the gallery i am working with and the heads you want are all available and of course framed.
yes lets have a cocktail so I tell you about the show and you about your project, would be great. Would Wednesday fine for you? 
i am finally back in bonn! I hope you are well. i can come to catch my things any time. just let me know when it is good for you.
I hope you are well, I wanted to let you know that the pieces are back in my studio everything went perfect.
I would love to be part, please sent me the user guide.
Sorry busy times at the moment. I would love to show one of the pieces. I thought it should be something on paper to propose to you. I will bring one of the pieces to Beirut. I definitely agree with you that this is so important to show in this context. I will later sent you all information, the catalog pdf, there are two Text so you can choose which one we want to use.
so nice to meet you, i am so exited and looking forward our opening tomorrow!!!
I hope you are well. I will be in Amsterdam next Wednesday and want to visit the Huis Marseille of course. Perhaps you have time for a coffee, that would be so nice.
no i am around on Thursday as well. I have an appointment at the De Ateliers around 13 but afterwards i am free, so we could meet then as well.
thank you for you mail, i really like your selection and great. I am so looking forward the show! I just arranged the production of the pieces, so they will be ready by the end of April and will be in my studio. I am not sure if i am able to come to the opening, because my opening at the Wallraf Richartz museum in Cologne is actually on the same day, it could be that this will be moved to the 21st but that is not sure. It would be so great to be at the opening. but i will definitely come the week after the opening to see the show! I am so exited! Do you have a special title for the show and can you give me the name of the others artist, that would be so great? and please let me know if i can help or support you in any kind, do you need more catalogs or any other information? Oh i love the title, great and the list of artists as well. It will be a really great show! I am so excited!!!! And i will check out if i can change the date for the other exhibition and let you know otherwise i come the week after.
Until now I always installed the piece in a horizontal row, just once in a presentation in France I installed them more as an all over, please be free to install them how it is the best for the whole exhibition. The works will be framed in wood.
I just decided to go to Brussels next week and just saw Gladstone is opening a Cybrien Gallard show on Monday. You are not there, are you? If you are, we could meet for a coffee, I will be around till Thursday.
nice to meet you and here are the h-res images of the pieces I will show in the summer show.
Yes I would love to. I am Friday till Sunday around. Let me know, when it is good for you to meet!
All the other pieces are free to sell. Just these two series are not anymore. Of course we can show different series and have some for sale and some not. Please be free to call anytime if there are question.
It would be very nice to meet you. Let me know when you have time.
I hope you are well. I am so looking forward our exhibition, and being so sad not be able to come to the opening, but i will come to New York directly on the 23th and stay for some days. let me know if you have time for a coffee or a drink, that would be so great! oh and do you have an invitation card as jpg or pdf?
It was nice to meet you at the Art Basel Brunch in Kassel. I would love to stay in contact. Attached you can find my portfolio. And if you are in New York around the 22th of July I am part of a Groupshow opening on that day at Gladstone i am not able to be there from the opening but the week after. I hope you had a great time in Kassel and wish you great days in Basel.
i hope you’re well! i am so excited seeing the show next week. I will arrive at the 24th and will leave again on the 28th. My schedule is very relaxed, let me know when it is good for you to meet. here are some impressions of the show in the Wallraf Richartz Museum opening on Thursday this week as well.
How was the opening yesterday? I hope everything went well and you had a great evening. I saw the installation shots on the website, the show looks so great, i am so exited to see you and the show next week.
Thank you so much for helping with my baggage, complete disaster .. since 4 days without suitcase ...Yes that is perfect! I'll be at the show then at 4:30! 
I am so happy with the show Miciah made and that he invited me, it looks really great and is amazing, so worth the whole adventure to come to see that in real. On the day of the opening here i had an opening in Cologne as well in the museum and we made a small catalog for that show ( pictures attached) now i wonder if you have an address were i can sent you one of those? I hope i meet you in person next time in New York or Europe.
of course we can all meet in Cologne and i show you the show there, and i can bring some books and my laptop, to show some more pieces. it is closer to Düsseldorf. i am fine with both. perhaps Cologne is a little bit easier to go to Herold and Düsseldorf. just let me know what is the best for you. 
Irene Cassina from Cassina Projects in New York gave me the advice to contact you. I am an artist from Germany, going on a trip to Tel Aviv from the 21.-28.7. I hope it is ok that i contact you. I am going to Tel Aviv to learn a little bit about the scene there and to get new impression for my one work, i am doing photography, video and sculptures. Perhaps you have some good advice to get an impression of the contemporary scene in tel aviv or time for a coffee in that week. that would be great.
I hope this email finds you well. I am an artist from Düsseldorf and a good friend of Claudia and Thomas from Konrad Fischer. I am in Tel Aviv this week, perhaps you have time for a coffee or a drink. It would be great to meet you.
I hope you are well, next week is a little bit difficult because i am on a trip then.the week after would be better. I think it would be easier if you organise the transport back and forth so you have directly the invoice and the times. And can you sent me the invitation and the exact date of the exhibition, that would be great!!
I hope you are well and you have a great summer. I recently came back from Israel which was amazing and now I am on holiday in Spain, wonderful time. I just wanted to sent you the link to this super nice article on artsy came out yesterday ;) https://www.artsy.net/article/artsy-editorial-12-artists-summer-group-deserve-solo
Thank you so much for this great article!!!!! It's really great!!
No problem, I don't have my favourite courier. I am recently on a trip but will sent you the sites directly tomorrow when I am back. For me it is important that the pieces are insured and we need to do something like a contract if that is ok for you, about the shipping back and forth and how long the pieces will stay with you. I need just a contract between us, so if we can make that till Thursday that would be great otherwise i cannot sent the work, i hope you understand that. I am looking forward the show, I will try to come over for the opening. Do you have an online invitation already you can sent me ;)
the sizes are for the both small velvets ( black and purple) 70x50x10 cm and the green gold one 120x65x12 cm.
that is so nice to hear. the new sculptures will be produced next month but here are some sketches. And the last series of photographs are based on an essay of Heinrich von Kleist about marionettes. I made this series quite connected to my series called avatars and the series you saw at gladstone. I show them at the moment at the wallraf richartz museum in cologne. from that series i am developing my next sculptures. In terms of photography i am thinking about anonymity and privacy. There are several quite interesting theses developing in Switzerland regarding to AI. But i am absolutely not sure how the pieces will look like in the end. But this is what i am recently thinking about. Next week i am back from Switzerland were I am now. So it would be great to talk next week if that is ok for you. Next week i am completely free so let me know when it is good for you.
of course the credits are not ok like they are, you have the time and information about the piece in the contract and it is important to use the right title and the right information for that. the pieces are now on there way to you, after the address and the labels you sent were wrong. I have not really a good feeling with that as you can imagine …
First of all I have to say that I was very happy about the invitation from you to be part of the show. I like your project very much!
But I asked Maria three times for the photos that I can decide what happens with the pieces. No answer from her. That is absolutely not ok. She is not allowed to bring my piece to the framer without my agreement. That is absolutely not the way how things like that should go. Aside of that she printed the card with my picture without credits or even showing me the card, which is not ok as well. At least you have to talk about things like that with the artist. My question about the date of the opening ( i actually wanted to come to the opening) and the title of the exhibition wasn't answered, I got that later from the invitation card. I am sorry, but that is not how you work together. And I am very sorry, i am and was working with some galleries smaller and bigger ones but something like that never happens to me and at the moment I don't see how I can part of the exhibition. I hope you understand my problem with this situation.
Can you please sent me images of what you did with my piece so that I can decide if it is possible to show the piece or not. All right, then let's show the piece. I hope the opening will be great!
I hope you are well, I would love to invite you to my opening and exhibition "Des Tänzers Weg der Seele", Friday 15 September at WENTRUP Gallery in Berlin. Perhaps you are around these days or the next week. It was such a great time in Israel, I already booked to come back in October.
i hope you are well and you had a good start back in the season. My opening in Berlin was wonderful really great time over there. Perhaps you can make it to see the exhibition. Here are some impressions of the show. All in black this time ;-)
i hope you’re well, i have just a little question, you told me about this beach near Haifa where you sometimes go, because it is the nicest but sometimes you can see bombs over there. do you know how this beach is called? hope to see you soon, thinking about coming to Israel again this fall.
My summer was great, yes Israel was amazing, such an inspiring place, i am thinking about going there next month again, we will see. How was your Summer?
I was at the opening, the show is so wonderful, really intense. Great to see so much pieces aside to each other, really great and the dinner was so nice so many friends of Herold were there celebrating him, there was this feeling of an old time coming up again so nice. I didn't get the images can you sent them to me again? Oh and here some images of my recent show in Berlin opened last week.
Thank you!! I really like the show! I didn't meet Tamir but we are in contact I think I will see her next time then. I am so looking forward going to Israel again. Let me know when you're coming to see the show of Herold, you can always stay here!
Thank you so much for your time and advises. It was very inspiring and i’m now even more interested to work on a project. So I worked a little bit on my concept and try to explain my idea more clearly so that it is easier to get an idea of what i want to do. I am now going through the websites you told me and would love to learn more during a workshop that would be amazing.
I hope you are well and everything is ready for the next days, I’m looking forward the Jahresgaben Weekend, will be fun! I have a question, I will have my first exhibition at Konrad Fischer Gallery Düsseldorf in January next year, yesterday I talked to Thomas and we decided that it would be great if we would have a text about the pieces I am showing. I know it is a little bit spontaneous, we would need the text before Christmas, but anyway, I would love to ask you if you are interested to write this text? I would be very glad!
all my best to you for the new Year. I hope you are well. I want to invite you to my next solo exhibtion at Konrad Fischer Gallery in Düsseldorf. The opening is at the 19th of January. But the show is running till March. perhaps you are around during this time. I would love to show you the new pieces.
Great, let me know if you can be in Düsseldorf, we will have a small Dinner before the opening with Gursky, and some people, not many. would be nice to have you there. If not Berlin is always fine.
Thank you for your nice Mail! I will sent you some Images when we are ready! I am thinking about coming to New York in March during the Armory Show, i am involved in a Exhibition at the Huis Marseille in Amsterdam about the Becher School and Düsseldorfs Photography, if they don‘t need me installing my pieces ( i am quiet sure they don‘t) I can come to New York. Perhaps we find an evening for a gin tonic then???
i am very well thank you! I had my opening at Konrad Fischers last Friday and now I am quite happy and a little bit relaxed! I hope you are well, too. I am very exited and looking forward the show. of course you can use my work, i think it looks really great!!! thank you so much for choosing my image that is a big honour for me in that huge context. Can you sent me some invitations when they are printed?
Thank you, that is a great honour for me! of course i agree with the Design!!
good to hear from yo, i hope everything is well. The show at Fischer is going great, i really like the gallery and the history of course, really a pleasure to be shown there.I meet Curtis once last year with Rosi Trockel. At the opening he was ill so we are planning a dinner during the next weeks, will be fun i am sure about! he is super nice.
At the moment I am working on different things, it is a lot but everything are good things and fun to work and think about. At the moment I am working on three shows in May, one for Wentrup gallery during the gallery weekend in Berlin, where i will show the dries van noten videos ;-) and perhaps a new series of photographs about upgrading the humans. There is this new possibility to buy implants which you can transplant in you hand, for caring data with you, open your car with and having wifi everywhere. they are very pretty but have this complete discussable ethical part, which interests me. I am right now traveling to Hamburg to a company producing these things they are selling these implants and pills to boost your brain, super weird things. After this show, i have a show at the Kunsthaus Riehen, next to Beyerle Foundation, which is part of the side programm for the art basel, there i will show different series and how they are connected to each other. and after this show i will have a small show during the architecture biennale in Venice, so crazy may but good may as well ;-) i forgot there is this Bernd and Hilla Becher exhibition in Amsterdam next month where i am in as well :-)
Recently I preparing my first virtual reality project, which is related to the black mannequin photographs i did last year. The plan is to meet one of them in a virtual space. Through an AI-Algorihim the mannequin will start to talk to you, it gets his information from the internet, so it can ask and answer question it will be quite close to a normal conversation. The clue is that the mannequin is connected to two algorithms, one of them is programmed to lie. though an random function you never know when it is lying and when it is the thought. gesture and body reactions are connected to the vr glasses so directly to the observers eyes. I am pretty happy that a company here in Cologne is a strong supporter of the piece so they are doing all the programming and i just wondering how people can have such technical skills, haha, it is super fun to do this pieces.
photographically i am working on a series about stopping the age, there are several new studies on that which are quite interesting and i like this very old topic and question nobody has answered until now and of course the question if it would be good to find a solution. aside of that i am planning to go to Israel to work there but still no idea what exactly will happen there, there is just the feeling, that something will come out, to i follow that.
a lot good things right now, it is really a good time i have to say ( head is exploding of ideas, that makes super happy). I thinking about come to New York after May, i will let you know when i know for sure.
it was a pleasure to meet you on Friday and thank you again for the nice Dinner. I hope you had some great days in Düsseldorf and Wuppertal. I would be very happy to welcome you in April in my studio. please let me know when it is a good time for you the first part of the month i am completely free, so any time is good for me.
thank you for the invitation, i am looking forward the exhibition and the dinner.that is great, a small group is good to talk about things and it is easier for them to ask questions i guess.My plan would be to first visit the exhibition and tell a little bit about the Becher school, from the beginning to now, will be a little history but i think that is important know and to understand the development of the Becher school and the next generation which I am a part of. 
but then i will basically focused on the way of production of Bernd an Hilla Becher,then how they teach, how the „düsseldorf school“ came up, what kind of production do we see and how do they work and how they find their inspiration. After that i will talk about how my educational way was, what Gursky taught in his class and what i learn from him and how we see photography nowadays, therefore i would name Jan Dibbets as well if that is ok. i know he is from Amsterdam but he taught in Düsseldorf as well and did this amazing show of photography in Paris, pandoras box, i would bring the catalogue, and talk about borders of photography, just short but i think this is super important, but just if that is ok? I will show some pieces to make a little bit clearer what i am doing, the way of thinking behind and the concept.
here i have one question, as the group is so small, do you want me to print the pieces so that we can just hang around quite casual and talk about things or shall i make a digital portfolio? after that i will talk about how to find ideas and inspiration. i will talk about a very recent project what will come up in May, i think that is the best way, to like break the borders, something not ready, so they can ask and see what it is really about. therefore as well i would bring research material or include that in my digital portfolio as you like. for me it is important that the students always can ask question or tell what they see or what they don’t like for example, do you have anything what is missing for you or something we should leave out?
Great, of course I am around, I would love to see you in Berlin, let me know when you have time I am not busy except of the opening. If you are free at the Friday evening of the opening, be very invited to the opening and dinner afterwards! Invite will come next week!
the 20th sound great, I am looking forward to meet you in bonn and hear more about your shows, sounds interesting.
I hope you are well, I would love to invite you to my next exhibition opening next Friday in Berlin. I would be very happy to see you there, and I am except of Wednesday the whole week in Berlin perhaps you are around as well so we can meet for a coffee.
Thursday would be perfect we will finish installing by Tuesday, so Thursday in the afternoon would be perfect.
Great, let me know when it is good for you, I am looking forward meeting you again.
Yes is was very nice, is it possible that you come a little bit earlier, at 11. my next show I am as little bit crazy and tomorrow will be the last thing to solve and eventually I have to go to Basel tomorrow evening. Would that be possible?
I hope you had a good time in Berlin it was nice to meet you there again. I would love to invite you to my next exhibition opening next week in Riehen near Basel and next to Beyerle Foundation at the Kunstraum Riehen. The show will run through Art Basel, perhaps you are around.
I would love to invite you to my next solo show and first in Switzerland. The show will open next week but will be on during Art Basel as well. It is next to Beyerle Foundation. Perhaps you are around at that time, I would love to show you the exhibition
please don’t mind, i know how crazy gallery weekend can be. I’m planing to come to New York in Juli, the end of July. I don’t know of you know cassina projects they asked me just some days ago to do a show next year at there place, do you know them? i’ll let you know the exact days directly when i have booked.
Let me know when you are around, I‘m in Basel during the whole Art Basel week. Would be great to see you!!!
I hope you are well and the fair is great for you. Tomorrow there is a vip breakfast in my exhibition at the Kunstraum Riehen next to the Beyeler foundation, I am very spontaneously allowed to invite people by myself, so I would love to invite you to this breakfast at 9:30.
I thank you for your time and the nice conversation. I would love to do the piece together. The piece I am thinking about is related to my latest series of photographs called „gliedermenschen“. my idea is to create surrounding were you can meet one of these "gliedermenschen“ and can talk to them. the mannequin should react to the person talking to them in terms of body language and answering questions or ask question itself though two AI Algorithms, one is programmed to respond by using true information the other one is programmed to lie. the information for the answers is coming from the internet. in addition the mannequin should be able to find a connection to Facebook or other social media platform to get information about the person to whom the mannequin is talking, to ask personal questions as well. I can think about a situation where the mannequin and the person are sitting on a table or are walking through a city or nature.
I am very looking forward seeing you and of course you, Dado tomorrow at Sale e Tabbachi
I hope you are well, my plans to come to New York changed, Cassina projects offered me the opportunity to make a show in Milano and not in New York now, so I will go to Milano to see the space over there. Recently I am working on some new pieces and will traveling a lot the next months. I‘m planing to go to San Francisco for a project so I could stop by in New York then.
I hope you are well. I have a question, do you have any information about the gallery in Bilbao? I still have trouble with them because of the damaged pieces of last year, now you cannot reach them anymore. Do you have any information.
Great, just let me know if you need me on Berlin or in London, both is always fun to go!
this is the first sketch i am still thinking about the background in terms of light and depth.
Yes it was a great meeting on Monday! I am so excited about the project!! Looking forward hearing from you and of course working on our project.
Tomorrow is perfect, i have a meeting at 10 but afterwards I am free, any time is good for me.
Nice to hear from you, the summer was great, I hope yours as well.
Thank you for the great opportunity to show with you at the art Düsseldorf. I will think about some works which would be good to show there. Please be very invited in my studio every time. I am planing to come to Brussels around the 14th of September, perhaps we can meet there as well.
i thought about the problem with the bot, I think if he gets some stories to tell and to start a conversation the pieces is still very good. I could come to London next Tuesday or Monday the 10th or Tuesday 11th for example.
I hope you had a save journey back to Ghent on Friday. I was a little bit hungover on Saturday :-) great evening, very funny. I just looked up the space in Mexico of Bosco Sodi you told me about, it looks fantastic, so if you could propose me to them, it would be fantastic, Mexico is so interesting would be great to work there.
I hope you are good as well. Yes i am available between 1 and 3 and 4 till 6 ( Berlin time) would that fit for you? All right, will be there at 2.
i hope you are well and you had a wonderful summer. I just got some great news again, I got a fellowship for spending 3 month in LA in the Thomas Mann house next year, i am really looking forward to be there and to work there.
in addition to that i am part of the culture delegation of the german foreign minister and will travel with him to Washington in two week to open the german year in America, another thing i am so looking forward to, it is pretty exciting to get an impression of these political environment.
and last but not least, i am working on a virtual reality piece with a new company in London called acute art, https://acuteart.com , Daniel Birnbaum is the ne director, the piece will be shown first time in January at my first solo show at the Sprengel museum and will afterwards shown in the Ludwig forum in Aachen but also in the Kunstmusuem in Bonn and now we are talking about showing it at Serpentine in London. so everything is going amazing at the moment :-)
here is my new first sketch, i am still thinking about doors in the background were the mannequins can come and leave but perhaps they can just come from the side, we will see.
I am free in half an hour, would that fit for you?
i hope you are well and you had a great summer. I have a question, next year i have a fellowship in LA and will stay at the Thomas Mann House over there for three months. I have the idea to work about the age, more specifically i want to focus on the ideas of a company called Calico which is connected to Google and their slogan is we’re tracking again. until now it is not really clear what this company is doing, but Google invested ca 750 million dollar in that project. I just wonder as you have contact to Google if you could connect me to a person who knows about the company. it would be great to start thinking about that topic form that point on or eventually take some very abstract photos at this company, nothing were you really can see something. it would be amazing to get at least a little information what they are doing.
yes i am very well, i was in Washington with the foreign minister this week, just for 22 hours but is was really funny :-)
the avatar 29 is in my studio ;-) the other one is already in the gallery right? i am mostly around the next weeks so transport can be anytime!!!!
can you sent me the room plan of the gallery, i would like to start thinking about the exhibition.
great, i will produce them, when do you need them to be ready?
Great. Yes with the framer everything will be fine. I will connect you with the framer some days before the fair that you can explain where to go on the fair.
Yes I am in Berlin in the 24th until lunch? Can we meet in the morning? Tuesday is also good for me, the earliest would be 11, I am the whole day free. Perfect, looking forward meeting you tomorrow!
I m very glad about your interest in my project. Thank you so much. During some researches I found your paper about the e-dermins perceives touch and pain. I am more than impressed about this development and very interested in this material. I am working a lot about the human body and the future of the human body. Because of your material I am thinking about a new piece, a room sensing pain. I would love to line a small room. It would be great to explain my project a bit more and to talk and learn about your fantastic researches. For that my question would be if you could support my project in terms of information. I am wondering if there is a possibility to get the material. I would love to visit you in Baltimore, is this possible during the next weeks, I am planing a trip to the US, on the 19th of August I have to be back in my studio in Bonn.
great thank you so much for your support. I am recently thinking a lot about the theories about post humanism and transhumanism today. I am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills. To me this is really interesting at the moment we have so much changes and developments people are in between attraction, fear and need. One of my biggest topics is robotic and AI. my first point for the piece I am planning now was a theory of some futuristics, they are dealing with the theses that 2045 the human being doesn’t need the human body anymore to be alive, which I think is not really possible, because of feelings and experience. One of our strongest experience is pain, physically and mentally. then I found your amazing paper and this was absolutely groundbreaking to me, because the material is body and not body and can feel. so I thought about a small room were the walls are covered by your material, so the person in the space is in a space with one of the strongest perception the human being can have and this related to the time we are living in. how did you find out how this skin can differentiate pain and normal contact? does the person wearing this skin on the protheses need to train this kind of different feeling? I could come between the 13th and the 18th to Baltimore or if you could send me some material that would be amazing, then i would if that is ok come later that year, I would love to see the lab.
that sound really interesting. Impressive who the body react and of course more pressure in a smaller area of the body leads to pain. It would be amazing if you could talk to your group and send me a flat sensor of 1 x1 m. Do you need some kind of guarantee that i just use it for this art piece? thank you so much for your support that is really great, to me this way of thinking about the body and pain is very important for my work. the material arrived, i was the week not in the studio so i just saw it today!!! no i will start thinking about what to do, i’ll let you know about the steps, i am so exhibited what will happen.
that is amazing thank you so much, let's talk soon, i will be in Switzerland today and tomorrow but how would fit Wednesday for you? there i am free for the whole day, i am so excited!!!
Can we talk tomorrow? I am sitting in a train since two hours, it stops because of a police operation ....any time would be good for me tomorrow.
The German government invites me to come to Washington with them for a celebration of the German year in America. This will be 3-4th October. I just wonder if you are around at the 5th I could come over to Baltimore and perhaps have a look at the lab and the things you are doing?sorry late replay i was waiting for my time table for the next days. I am really sad to say that i am not allowed to leave the delegation, because of safety reasons :-/ so i cannot come over to Baltimore, but i am thinking about coming in the end of November, because i really want to see the lab and what are you doing.
i am thinking about my idea of the whole room covert with your skin material and did some test, it works really well and now i am very sure that the piece works out. So i want to ask you if it is possible to get really a lot of the material, to cover the room. of course we can find a way of expenses and of course i will mention were the material comes from in the text and catalog. what do you think, would that possible?
great then i would say we should have 5 edition for selling and for the exhibition we should leave that open right? i would add the number and sign, and will sent the paper to you?
Would it be possible to meet at 2pm tomorrow as well, I just then will have a little more time.
for our show in January we are planning now with the new series called „disruption“, the measures will follow asap. the sculptures with photographies called „mork“ some of the gliedermensch and avatar examples are below and two mirrors also animation below. for the fair in January we are thinking about a video: https://vimeo.com/258986583 https://vimeo.com/258984285 https://vimeo.com/252352447 and the concert mork or another one depending which one we don’t need in the gallery. i just forget to ask how we deal with the production costs for the show?
Düsseldorf was nice, how was it for you, went everything well? the piece Jean and Marina took is: Avatar 30 2016 Inkjetprint
For the show in January we got the sculpture and photo pieces in my studio, ready to take off, the new series are not produced jet. I can arrange that next week then it takes 3 weeks, so we could have a transport this year in December or in January next year, as you like. for me both is good, in January i got the big show at the Sprengel Museum Hannover (29.1 opening) and two group shows one at Museum Morsbroich Leverkusen(27.1 opening) and the other at Kunsthalle Emden (26.1 opening). i have just two questions, how do we handle the production costs of the new pieces? and for the sculptures we need bases, shall i bring them or do you got some we could use? it is coming per WeTransfer, takes a bit, sitting in the train to Munich …...
do you have time for a call today? i got some things and questions :-) the base station are not tracking properly sometimes it works and sometimes not. glasses as well, but you can hear what they are talking, the mannequins need to sit on the table i sent you the sketches of the chairs and the table the table is not a glass table it is out of linoleum can we change that in the vr? i am available the whole day. 
i hope you are very well, i have some question the Sprengel museum was asking me about the vr equipment. they are planning the show the piece on three different places in the museum, so is it possible to get the equipment for the installations? and is there anything they have to know before, like sharing the equipment or something else? yes one headset per table ist perfect, the exhibition will end in Juli. here are the plans, i marked in the second one were the pieces will be. two of them will be in the exhibition and the third one should be open the exhibition directly in the entrance of the museum i don’t have plans for this space.
i hope you had a great Christmas and now a great start in 2019. All the best for this year.
Can you sent me the invitation for the show, ich would like to sent this to some people. 
Happy 2019 to you too!!!!! Yes I talked to Knab, they are coming next week on Thursday, so we are good there!! I am so excited for the exhibition!!! 
Thank you for the day, it was great and I am so looking for the piece! I will sent you footage asap! It is perfect when you make a press package.For Art Basel i‘ll let you know when we are clear with them should be next month. 
it was a great Day yesterday, thank you for that. Here are the cost of the table and seats for the piece. And i thought about your idea to do another piece when we finished, i think that would be great, if you like i would sent an idea after all the openings of the next weeks. i hope you can come to the show in Hannover on the 29th.
thank you, for you a great new year as well. I can send the works to my gallery in Berlin so you can pick them up there. this would be Wentrup gallery. if that is ok for you i choose 6 of the heads, sent them to the gallery and put you in contact with them?
thank you for your mail and your invitation, the project sound very interesting and i would be happy to be part of it. I have one question, the series heads got 55 pieces how many of them do you need? the series is shown before at the Kunsthalle Emden and the Kunstmuseum Rathingen in Germany so i have to plan a little bit how many of them are free at the time of the festival. perhaps it is a little bit easy for you to say that but perhaps you got an idea… and i will be in Los Angeles at that time next year so i would connect you with my assistant as well who will be organising everything next year, if this is ok for you.
the footage is coming, sorry that is takes so long. i thought about having some footage of the installation of the show in Hannover as well, in the studio it is more or less sitting on the computer the show could be more interesting what do you think? Did you have contact with the museum because of the installation of the piece. are you sending the equipment directly to the museum and do i have to know anything for the installation. i am so exhibited to see the piece there.
i hope you are well and everything is going well. Can you already sent me the piece? I have to go to Brussels on Sunday and after that to Hanover to install the show on Tuesday, so i won’t be at the computer the next week. I think it would be great if I can see the piece before the show just in case. Perhaps i can see it on the computer? Would that possible.
thank you for your request. I know your project and think it is really great. of course it is a pleasure to be part of it. i am recently very busy with some shows coming up the next two weeks, but afterwards i will sent you an image.
i put the titles in the images ;-) thank you for today, i am very happy with the show and looking forward Thursday!!!
amazing thank you so much!!! i will check this today i am already on my way to Hannover, do you know if anything is ok with the equipment for the museum? i did’t hear something from Irene. Sorry to bother you again but I really need to know how and when we install the piece next week. Can you please tell me when we can do that? Monday is press conference at 11 and Tuesday is the opening in the evening :)
The opening went really well and everybody loves the piece, it was great. My Galerist just as me if it would be ok if he can offer a friend working at Zabludowicz Collection to show the piece, he is planning a VR show. Is that ok for you? Can I put you in contact?
It was nice to meet you in Hannover. Let me know when you in the Rhineland, so we can have a coffee some time.
The week was great, really good opening!!! We can catch up tomorrow anytime or on Thursday, what would be better for you?
i hope this email finds you well, i am an artist from Germany and coming to Tel Aviv quite spontaneous tomorrow for some days. I would love to bring my new catalogue to the Gallery. Irit told be that she is in Switzerland. Would it be ok for you if i step by on Friday morning?
Thanks a lot!!! It would be great to meet you and talk to you. When in May would the conference be. I am moving to Los Angeles next month for the fellowship of villa aurora but will come back in May anyway for some days. So I can return to Frankfurt for the conference, that would be perfect. If I have the dates I can arrange my flights.
the German TV Channel ZDF is planning to show my exhibition at the Sprengel Museum in their digital Kunsthalle and it is possible to show VR-pieces and also the mobile version. They want to reduce the show of the Museum a little bit, they want to have only four rooms :-) so one could be aporias, what do you think? https://digitalekunsthalle.zdf.de/index.html the channel will produce this exhibition or film next week, because i will go to Los Angeles by the end of this month. i hope you are well. I am on my way to Hannover again, the German tv channel ZDF build a digital museum and invited me to show my exhibition of the Sprengel museum in this museum as well, it is a completely different ways to think about the pieces we will see what comes out of it. I just saw this residency which sound really interesting and was wondering if you have a contact to them and can put a good word in for me :-)
I hope you are well and in New York the spring is coming now :) I am recently preparing my stay in Los Angeles for the next three months and really looking forward to! Here in Germany my Frist institutional solo exhibition at the Sprengel Museum is going really well and will now shown in the first digital Kunsthalle of the German tv Channel zdf and is going afterwards to the Ludwig forum in Aachen where I will add a new installation as well. So very exciting times right now. For the Easter holidays I will come to New York from April 15th to the 22nd and just wonder if you are around and have time for a coffee?
Thanks a lot!!! It would be great to meet you and talk to you. When in May would the conference be. I am moving to Los Angeles next month for the fellowship of villa aurora but will come back in May anyway for some days. So I can return to Frankfurt for the conference that would be perfect. If I have the dates I can arrange my flights. 
Great, thank you!!! Looking forward coming to Frankfurt!!
I am recently preparing my stay in Los Angeles for the next three months and really looking forward to! I just saw this residency which sound really interesting and was wondering if you have a contact to them and can put a good word in for me :-)
The German TV Channel ZDF is planning to show my exhibition at the Sprengel Museum in their digital Kunsthalle and it is possible to show VR-pieces and also the mobile version. They want to reduce the show of the Museum a little bite, they want to have only four rooms :-)  so one could be aporias, what do you think? The channel will produce this exhibition or film next week, because I will go to Los Angeles by the end of this month.
I hope you are well. I am on my way to Hannover again the German TV channel ZDF builds a digital museum and invited me to show my exhibition of the Sprengel Museum in this museum as well, it is a completely different ways to think about the pieces we will see what comes out of it.
Here in Germany my first institutional solo exhibition at the Sprengel Museum is going really well and will now shown in the first digital Kunsthalle of the German TV Channel ZDF and is going afterwards to the Ludwig Forum in Aachen were I will add a new installation as well. So very exciting times right now. 
I hope you are well and in New York the spring is coming now :) For the Easter holidays I will come to New York from April 15th to the 22nd and just wonder if you are around and have time for a coffee? Would be great to see you!
It would be so great to meet you while being in LA. I will arrive on Tuesday next week and will be there for the next three month, with two little breaks. It would be amazing if you have some time to give me some advices for the city, as Christina said, it is not the easiest city and it would be so good to have some help. I am quite free so please let me know when you have time.
I am looking forward hearing from you.
I am so sorry I am late with my answer. I am recently in LA for the Villa Aurora; I hope you had a nice Abschied in Bonn. I wish you all the best for your new job and would be happy to meet for a coffee when you are around again to install the shows.
Yes lets text on Tuesday next week that is great. I talked to Georg the other day and we thought about doing the show together, perhaps this is an idea we could talk about.
Sounds good! I am looking forward seeing the 360 video!! I‘m landing in Bonn on Thursday so will be online on Friday the whole day.
If the piece will shown in Moskau by the end of May it could be possible to come over for a short opening visit, I have to check that here with the fellowship organisation.
I hope this email finds you well; Thomas was so kind to put us in contact. As he said I am staying in the villa Aurora for the next three month. It would be great to visit you. Please let me know when it would be good for you. I will be most of the time in LA so I am quite flexible. 
No worries, there was a lot to see and to do the first days. May would be great but I will be in Europe until the 18th. But afterward I am absolutely free would there be another day where we can meet? 
At the villa it is amazing, so good to be there, the other fellows are great, the discussions are very intense and good and this surrounding is wonderful.
That is perfect. Perhaps it is better to close the door. As the human friend is not able to answer, the bot cannot say, „you can speak anytime“ for example and explain how you can interact with the bots, directly from second 30-40 and there are some points were the bots are asking questions and wait for an answer of the human friend which doesn’t make sense in this version.
I have three things: In the 360 video it is not possible to speak to the bots right? If it is not possible it doesn’t make sense that the bots are addressing questions to the human. On this point we have to change to texts. And is it on the phone also bended like it is in this version,
and it is difficult to see the third bot because of the door, is it possible to get him more sharp?
Next week on Wednesday my new exhibition project by the „digitale Kunsthalle“ of the TV Channel ZDF will be online. It featured the recent exhibition of the Sprengel Museum Hannover in some points but is only digital visible. Also my project with acute art will be online next week.
I will be in New York until Wednesday and afterwards in sunny Los Angeles for the next two month :-)
We met in Tilburg for the opening of Richard Long. I hope you are well. Regarding to our talk there I want to inform you about my new exhibition project at the „Digitale Kunsthalle“ of ZDF which is now online, I am sorry the newsletter is only in German. My artwork for acute art London will be online as well on Friday. Attached you can find my new portfolio.
I hope this email find you well. I am an artist from Germany. My works are dealt with the future of human body, in terms of technical and medical progress and emotions as the question of relationships and love. Through my research I found your company and I very impressed by the work you are doing. I am recently preparing my next shows and works and would like to ask you if it would be possible to visit your production and talk to you about your work and eventually take some photos (of course only with your permission).
Great I talked to Georg yesterday, nice that he can come as well. I will come on the 11th directly from Venice to Milano and will catch the same flight like Georg back to cologne. It would be great if you can host me, thank you so much. I am so looking forward coming to Milano and start planning the show! 
I hope you are well, tomorrow evening there is a little event at the Villa Aurora called „meet the fellows“, starting at 19:30. If you have time, I would love to invite you.
I am in Venice since yesterday evening!! Are you around already. Is there still the plan to go to the Brooklyn rail party today? 
I will be in Venice from the 7th until the 10th. Would be great to have a drink there and talk about our plans!
Thank you for the great evening and the invitation to that. It was really nice, beautiful location and nice talks it was great to see you. Can I ask you to connect me to the curator of the LACMA and of the museum in Santa Barbara that would be so great to meet them when I am back in L.A.? I hope to see you soon. I let you know when I am in London for Acute the next time. I wish you good day in Venice. 
Great, that would be really cool. I am in Bonn until Friday, so if there are so spontaneous, we could do the photos this week or during the Art Basel week I am around as well. The interview we could do perhaps per phone, better. 
Great if you can contact the Doctor, that would be amazing. And amazing which the installation Idea, I will come up with that as soon as it is more clear. I didn’t hear from Georg until now but will try to reach him today and meet him before art Basel. Perhaps you can sent me the floorplan from the other room as well so I can discuss with him what we can do or if we sure the spaces or not.
Thank you for your answer and the information about the production. I just wonder if you have any two-piece mould you don’t need any more for the production. If so I would be very interested in buying them for my next project. Is there something you have and could offer me? That would be a really great help.
Great to hear from you. If you have any questions about the work don‘t hesitate to ask me. I am now back in LA working on some new projects and enjoying the sun over here. I hope you had a great time in Venice, it was so nice there.
It was a pleasure to meet you at the party of white cube, yesterday. As promised here is my portfolio and a link to a recent online exhibition which is running now. This show is connected to my exhibition at the Sprengel Museum in Hannover which is running until the 10th of July and afterwards going to the Ludwig Forum in Aachen, both in Germany. Here is also the link to the website of acute art who produced the my VR piece Toby mentioned yesterday.
Of course, it is coming by wetransfer.
The images are quite small but ok for social media, as soon as I got bigger ones for anything else I will send them to you as well.
Thank you! I wish you all the best, for the rest of the year and for the great things coming up for you. 
Thank you for your time yesterday, it was great to talk to you and thanks again for your advices, tomorrow I will make a tour to see the houses of Lloyd Wright Jr. really looking forward to see that. And I just looked up the Chianti foundation in Texas which looks really interesting to me. 
It would be great if you could connect me to your friend at the die foundation, I will be in New York in November, perhaps already in August so would be great if he is interested in the "poison piece“. I just found the English text and some images to get a little impression of that. 
I am an artist based in Germany and working in new media as video and VR but also in photography and sculpture. Most of my pieces are dealing with the question of human communication and interaction in our recent world and the digital world. Through my research I notices your company and I am very impressed about the possibilities and the way of thinking behind your products and f cause the perfections of your dolls is amazing. I am now preparing some new works for my next institutional shows and just wonder if it would be possible to visit your company for getting inspiration and more information about what you are doing and where you are going to.
Thank you for your respond, I will check out the visa and the flights. 
I don’t need a film crew, firth of all for me it is interesting to learn more about the production and theory behind the development. I think in the end my work will find more it’s easy into sculpture or installation. I’ll come back to you when I arraigned everything so we can schedule a date.
Great would be if I could get the mould of the back. It would be perfect to have more or less a standard, like a high of 1.70 and tight 60 cm, buttocks 90. How long would it take you to make the mould and to ship it?
I am looking forward to attend the artist talk tomorrow.
I hope your father is better and you are good as well. 
New York was amazing, it was Leonards first time and like nearly everybody he totally fell in love with the city and now he is saving all his money to move to New York. And LA is amazing as well, of course lots of things to see but also enough time to work which is really great to have this combination working out so well…
Thank you for the contact I’m gonna write them, that is great.
And it would be amazing if you could talk to Sharon Lockhart I know her work and like it a lot, it would be great if you could connect us. 
Thank you, yes I am very excited, that is such a great opportunity. I just looked up the art department and try to get contact to Nora Schultz, perhaps she can help a little bit. We will see. It would be great if you hear anything that could help. I really want to go there, really great chance.
I’ve heard you come to Germany in late summer that is also great. Perhaps we have some time than for a nice dinner or so.
Just received the mail, thank you so much!!!
Thank you for your very nice mail. I would love to take part of the project that sound very interesting, thank you for your invitation. Perhaps the best would be to talk on the phone the next days, to get to know each other a bit? 
August is perfect for me, I will be setting up the exhibition of the Sprengel Museum in Ludwig Forum Aachen but there is always time to speak.
Looking forward talking to you in August and wish nice vacations!!!
Yes that sounds good, we don‘t need subtitles. 
I will sent you the files per wetransfer tomorrow, I am recently in Spain without WiFi in the house. 
The sculpture will look like the image, there you see the dummy, the bronze will be the same. 
The captions for the videos are coming during the day, have to think about the title a little bit ;)
The copyright and credits are Louisa Clement & Acute Art. Title of the piece is aporias. It’s from 2019.
Are you in Berlin for the art week? I will be there perhaps we can meet for a coffee.
I am looking forward seeing you there. I think I cannot make it to Milano I have to do an artist talk at the art fair Berlin. But after the opening in Aachen I am very relaxed and can come over again. I hope you will have a great opening, I am pretty sure it will be fantastic!!!!
Thank you for the information, that is very helpful to think about what to do.
Your show look really cool there. I am not in LA, I am living in Germany but perhaps we can Skype? I would love to! photo-tex is totally fine for me to work with.
I already have an idea, after getting the information, but I have two questions. Is it possible to work with beamers? And can I work with the photo-tex all over the wall? I worked on a new installation which is actually photo based about avatars whochcould fit perfectly.
I am an artist from Germany, who hat the great chance to visit your institute, in June this year. I was very impressed. Especially by a presentation of the Elite Sharp Brave program, which I think is a very good way to analyze situations. On your website I found out that there is a download on the MilGaming web portal, but I could find it. Would it be possible to get access to that program?
I hope the Gallery Weekend went very well. Do you already know when the pieces can come to Aachen? Next thursday we have a film production over there and it would be great to have the pieces there.
I hope you are well. I have a question, for the exhibition at Ludwig forum Aachen; I spontaneously need the concrete Mork and the black one, could it be possible to send them to the museum?
Just talked with acute, of course we can show the piece if we want to.
It is me again, the Villa Aurora / Thomas Mann House invited me for a talk on a conference about future images of the world, of course they asked me to show aporias there as well. Would that be ok for you? Would be in the Salon Charlotte in Berlin.
And shall we talk about the new piece the next days? Could be interesting to show that as well in Norway at the Onstad Triennale …
I hope you are well. How is everything going? I still working on my impressions of LA it was really an amazing time over there. And I will come back in February; I am so looking forward to. 
I have two questions, as my plans to go to New York this year changed a lot and now moved to march next year, but this for sure, it is allergy booked, I wondered if you could connect me with your friend from the dia foundation, I think there could be some new pieces also interesting for him. 
And the other question, a friend of mine is now coming to the villa aurora, in my eyes he is an really interesting artist and could also be interesting for you. Can I connect you two?
We can use my screens that is no problem. The bars and walls are options to show not list in you, depending on the space and combination. I am good with both. 
Thank you so much I am very excited about today, yesterday a German Belgian TV channel was there I will find out which one and set you a link. I have some photos already but not all, but I am on my way to the Ludwig forum and will take some more.
No problem, that easy, can you give me the address of the AirBnB? I need a address where I will stay.
Thank you for your email. Sound interesting! The question how aporias is programmed I cannot not answer, I am very sorry, acute art is doing all the programming stuff and I am only involved in artistic decisions and tell them what I want :) very computable. I will ask them if I can connect you with the guys who did aporias.
Today I have an opening at the Ludwig forum in Aachen where I also show aporias. I guess it is a little bit to spontaneous but of course you are very invited to the opening, but the show is running until the end of January, perhaps you can make it. 
For the content of the piece, I think I am using media in a different way; I didn’t want to do a VR piece so I tried to transform something into VR. I had this question if a conversation with a bot is a real conversation, because it isn’t related to another human anymore, an AI generate its answers by itself, and is not connected to a person who is controlling it after setting it up. 
You know a conversation is related to persons, so to human beings, to feelings, experiences, to the subconscious and to so much more, so it is about giving something and getting something back. So what is when you talk to something like an algorithm, what we are doing a lot today, is it a conversation? And what is the impact on me? 
I wanted to scratch this border and bring myself in the situation of meeting a bot, the only place where you can meet a bot is VR. This is the space between the real and the digital world. So I needed to create this place were the bots and I can sit on the table and talk to find out this about this. 
The way the bots look like is related to a photographic series I did in 2017, called „Gliedermenschen“ which is again related to Heinrich von Kleists „on the marionette theatre“ where he is dealing with the marionette and the mechanist, and the relationship between both. 
The rest of the room should be as neutral as possible, because I wanted to concentrate on the conversation not on the outside, it is not about affects. 
The piece is now running without me what I think is quite interesting, the bots learn from the conversations they are having and every conversation they have is unique what is also interesting for the viewer, it is an unique experience nobody can have the same conversation, what I also think is interesting. 
I am don’t think that it is consequent just to transform something in VR because you can, there must be a reason for a medium, always, also in VR. To me there are still some questions on VR as a space I still cannot answer in the right way, the questions on time and dimension, are the most obvious questions. 
I build a space like we have in the real world because I wanted to have this border between digital and real, behind the door of the room you can see just white like, that is because I cannot define the virtual and the digital space right now, we have other rules in the virtual space, in terms of architecture every role is not valid, statics, weight and material is not ruled anymore, body dimension as well. Time in terms of shifting and also aging is not valid, so where is the frame in there or do we need a frame or not? 
Great to read that you like the ideas. Perhaps there is a possibility to fix a beamer, I think would be great to have the videos included somehow.
The photo material was the material Peggy Weil advised me to use for the walls, we could use another kind of paper, I will ask my printer about the possibilities and costs. If you give me the exact dominions of the walls that would be amazing.
The interview is super, thank you!
How are you? I got this request, can you inform him about the prices and everything?
Thank you again for this nice time and everything. You really made an amazing great job on the fair!!! And it was great to spend the rest of the time with you!
I am also good with the prices. Johann cancelled the appointment tomorrow, there are some problems in his gallery came up during the last days, so we will see what’s happening.
Do you have all images or shall I send them all to you?
Sorry I am a bit late, here is the list of the Avatar Series.
I hope you are well, I will be in London at the 17th of December, if you are around we could talk about the piece than?
Thank you so much, Irene; that is very helpful and great to have. Thank you. 
Johanna and I are trying to come to the opening but we are quite spontaneous, as we didn’t booked any hotels until now. We are just thinking about coming to gent on Friday eventually, we let you know. Would be great to meet, we will see.
I will be in London from the 15th to the 17th if we are thinking about doing an interview or something I could come by. 
I hope you are well, I am so looking forward seeing you next week!!! 
Yesterday I got the very spontaneous invitation of Christine König gallery in Vienna (not Johann but König :-D  ) to be part of their show for the 30 anniversary of the gallery. They are showing 4 young artists in a group show, the opening is on the 16th of January as well. I will show some of the Gliedermenschen and one avatar and two videos of not lost in you, so only „old“ pieces, all the new pieces are blocked for our show. My assistant Michael will go to Vienna in the end of December to install the things so there is no stress in January. 
There is also the ENTERVENTIONALE#2020 in Bonn, the plan is to set up an installation on a station in Bonn; this is also Michael in charge, as he is also the curator of this exhibition. The opening is on the 14th (in our installations time, so we have to celebrate it in Milano haha)
The show in Hamburg is eventually moved to February, we are not sure jet, I let you know when this is safe.
February is a little bit more busy, there is a very small solo show at the university of orange county, California, the communication is quite difficult but the opening should be around the 20th.
21th is the opening at the Heine Onstad Trienale for photography, they will show, aporias and Gliedermenschen, transport is directly from the Ludwig forum to Oslo. I will send the loan contract as soon as I got it.
A week later, 27th opening at Martha Herford, Glas und Beton, they will show the Transformationschnitt.
And 27.3 is an opening at Kunstpalast Düsseldorf, an exhibition on Düsseldorf photography, 50 artists 4 generations. And I am selected for the prize for photography of Alison and Peter Klein foundation, the opening is on the same day.
We structured everything yesterday, looks like a lot to do, but in the end it is good to handle.
Later this day I am talking to the bronze factory and the framer and then I come back to you for our exhibition!!!!!!
That sounds wonderful I‘ll keep you posted when I will be landed but 7 should work out fine.
Cool thanks great, I am sending the last files right now to Julia. 
That is perfect! Can I share the invitation already? 
Here is my list for the Dinner, there are a lot of people, I am sure they won’t come all to the opening, but I think it is good to invite them and to start the contact with, some of their collectors following my work since the beginning and are buying a lot.
If you have any questions, please ask.
My name is Louisa Clement, I am an artist from Germany; my work is dealing with communication and emotion in our age. Through my research I found your website and I am very fascinated by the perfection of your dolls and the topic you are dealing with. 
I am recently working on my next institutional show in an international Museum in Germany and would love to include new pieces inspired by your doll. So I wonder if you could sell me the back half of a production mould of one of your dolls. I would love to Desk with the prediction of production in these new pieces. 
Of course, no problem, but at the moment I am more than busy with 3 exhibitions opening next week, can I sent you the paragraph after next week?
How high are the walls? We could talk on Friday if that fits for you?
Thank you, yes would be great to meet, I’ll let you know when I am in Berlin, should be in February.
We can talk any time after the next week, I am thinking about coming over again in the end of the month there is a small exhibition at the German embassy with some friends of mine, that’s on the 29th, would be perfect to talk then?
Yesterday was the opening of my side project in Bonn, I was in Milano but it went all good I am quite happy with the installation. Tomorrow Herold and me are opening in Milano, really fun over here and so good food.
So great to be in touch with you, I will be in Milan, from the 13th till the 17th. I will be installing the show with Georg Herold during that day, but we are not that busy, so quite relax, perhaps you want to step by for a coffee and a little preview otherwise we can meet anywhere else, both is very fine for me. What would be better for you?
Yes that would be great, please let me know what you need for that, that is super!
Here are some words about the series, but can you please tell the art forum, no quotes of mine, that would be cool.
The series „chircling heads“, 2019 comprises 10 videos showing a mannequin head rotating around itself. Each video is a loop. From the first to the 10th loop the head gets more and more damaged up to complete destruction. The actual act of destruction is never shown, the videos show different states of destruction of the head. 
I am an Artist from Germany, in my work I am dealing with the human body, its borders, and identity nowadays. Most of the time I am using mannequins for my art works. I am recently working on a new project for a upcoming museum show. Through my research I found the website of your company and was impressed of the perfection of production. 
I saw you also predicting real looking baby dolls. I wonder if it could be possible to buy one back of a production-mould of those baby doll from you? Perhaps one you don’t need any more. My plan it to transform this mould into a bronze, to also reflect the perfection of this dolls and the production.
Thank you for your answer. It would just the back half of the mould I can guarantee that I just want to transfer this half piece in a bronze. I also could send it back to you.
If that is not possible, what would cost a baby doll?
Thank you for your email. The image you used is in the wrong direction it is an upright format as I sent it to you. Can you please change that? We can talk about anything else afterwards, I am sorry to be so strict about that, but this is a artistic decision which format the image has. 
I hope you all are very well. After a very busy January, now it is getting more focussed on the studio work.
The show in Milan with Georg Herold went very well, working with Georg and reflecting the work of each other was really great. At the same time I opened a side specific project in Bonn at a underground station. Now I am working on this futher to transfer it into the exhibitionspace as well and try to find places to realise it again in the public. 
Before the show in Milan I made this new series of bronzes, these are mould of artificial intelligent sexdolls. I was interested in the emptiness of these bodies, and the line between a unique for someone made fake person and mass production. So I ordered several moulds of these dolls and transferred them into bronzes. From that point, I started to transfer these moulds in photography as well, because I noticed that these empty bodies, the negative space become a positive space by using the iPhone to make pictures of them. To me it is comparable to social media, the digital world makes emptiness to a volume.
Now my next step it a reborn baby mould, I am trying to get one of these mould at the moment, but this is a little more difficult than getting the moulds of the sexdolls, but should work out.
Recently I have one project, I would like to ask you if you have any advice or an idea who could support this kind of project or is interested in, as I know it is a very big project, I know that it is difficult to realise, but I am sure it is very important to do that, in terms of recent political reasons. 
I hope you are good. I am just planning my trip to New York in March during Armory. Do you have anyone I should meet or would be good to meet over there? I will be there from the 4th to the 8th.
I hope you are very well. Here everything is great, there were some gallery changes during the last month, so I am not working with Wentrup gallery anymore and started working with Cassina Projects in Milan, were now my first show is one view. To me a very important and nice show together with a good friend of mine Georg Herold. It was such a great time to think and work with Georg, I am very thankful for this great exchange. 
I will be in New York for the armory show from the 4th till the 8th of march and will definitely come to the Gallery to see the shows, would be nice to see you over there.
I would live to come to do an artist talk, but I tried to get the day free, but there is a very important appointment for a project next year which I cannot move, I am very sorry. 
How is everything going? Can you send me an image of the installation to share?
I hope you are well and everything is good in Los Angeles. I am trying to come back this year perhaps in summer to spend some time over there again, last year was such a nice intense time. 
I have a question as we talked you told me you could connect me with a curator of Dia Foundation, working more with young artist, as I think my work is more and more going in an interesting direction for Dia it would be great to meet and have an exchange. I will be in New York from 3rd to 8th of March, quite spontaneously and would be great to meet him. 
Below you can find some images of the Transformationschnitt, the poison gas installation as a new work I am now working on realizing in Germany in the beginning of 2021. It is a quite intense project dealing with German history and I am very happy that me and my studio will get that done.
Could you sent me a kind of teaser for the work, I am applying for future generation prize and would be great to include the work in the application.
All good over here, I hope you are good as well. Sound like a great idea, I would love to think further about that. 
What would be the best to talk about that commission, I could come over to London to talk more about it and start to think about we can create.
Here are finally installation shots of Oslo and the information that aporias is closed there because of Corona …
I hope you are good, we all follow the new about Italy, really crazy times, my wishes to you that all will be fine again quite soon. 
The Avatar Frame is 117x88 cm. I think the weight is around 12 Kilos.
So do I! I wish you all the best for this intense times, we all are in now!
Here are the answers’ hope they are ok, let me know if you need something else or more, always here to support our exhibition and the gallery!!! I don’t have any photos from Düsseldorf jet, I wills for them today.
Here everything is good, focusing on studio work and some research. I hope you are good and everybody is still fine.
Here are all mirrors, there are 19 different but not produced, the pink one with the golden frame is sold out but the others are still there. It is always 3 edition. Actually they are produced by Conzen and Grieger, as the production is quite complicated and Conzen has some problems at the moment, we will find out and get back to you, but I am optimistic they will be happy about orders in that times. :-) Let me know which ones you would like to produce, so we can ask Conzen and Grieger.
Here everything is good and everybody is still healthy. From my side we can do that, I have a teaser but perhaps Ellis gut another idea how to present the work online?
Perfect than I will order the two frames and Conzen can bring them both to Bonn, easy ;)
I have a little question on timing, Judy Lüpke from eigen und art and the lab where I should show in July changed the date of the exhibition to June, and I was wondering if it is possible to get perhaps two of the moulds for the show? How are your plans with the exhibition, I know that is a bit difficult right now, but I think it would be good to have them in Berlin as well. Perhaps we can talk about the best strategy and schedules the next days.
The show in went ok I think, I wasn’t there, I am still quite afraid I terms of travelling, so stayed here, what I think was ok, that was a small show and under the recent situation totally ok I think.
I will talk to Judy at 10 and will ask him about the transport conditions, perhaps it would also ok to have one over there I will figure out. I will call you when I finished the call with Judy, I think 11 should work out easily.
No problem I sent you some works and installation shots from the recent show at Cassina projects. The credit of the artworks are on me, and courtesy is me and Cassina projects. If you need more images or other ones please let me know.
Sorry for my late respond, I am very happy to an interview with you. 
The show at eigen + art will be titled omissions and I will show several series of works. There will be some videos from the my series circling heads (2019), in the video loops you see always the same head circling but in different states of destruction. 
Then we will show a series of sculptures, called moulds (2020), these bronzes are related to the sex dolls production moulds. Based on these moulds I developed a series of photographs because I noticed that when I do a photo with the smart phone of the mould the negative space become a volume, what in that case was quite interesting for me, because the absent body of the sculptures became a positive volumes through digitally. So we will show the series of bodies (2020).
Next thing will be a series called inside (2020), these are very abstract photographs from the inside of the mannequins I washing to do my series avatar and not lost in you in 2016/2017.
And the last one will be two new piece related to the way of working and dealing with the moulds, this is the newest pieces, so it is not titled yet but will be during the next days, it is a bronze mould of and reborn baby. And a photography of the mould, but also not titled yet, but I will let you know as soon as this come to my mind. 
In terms of using the images for the interview, we cannot use the photos of the baby mould because this is just the model the real one is in the bronze foundry and will the ready by the end of May so these photos are you for you to get an impression what will be happening ;-)
I hope you are well and everything is fine. I got this inquiry; do you want to contact the guy?
Shall I sent you some more works and also the new works as jpgs? 
That sounds good, I can sent you some sketches on Monday as I am now in Berlin I will try to find some time to sketch but on the weekend I will have time at home to do it. I also was thinking about sketching some environments where the mannequins can be set in, perhaps that could be interesting as well.
My very best to you from crazy, very normal Berlin, really weird over here as there were no covid around.
I would like to inform you about a new work that is currently in production.
It is based on my latest work: On the one hand, on the VR work "Aporias", 2019, which deals with the limits of virtual space and artificial intelligence; and on the other hand, the "Schmerzraum", 2019, in which, with the support of the Prosthetics Labs at John's Hopkins University Baltimore, I covered a room with an artificial skin that can conduct pain. 
Most recently, my preoccupation with the human body and human communication has led me to sculptures of sex doll shells I showed you when I was in London. In my current exhibition in Berlin, the emotional negotiation of these 'empty' bodies in particular has continued for me. The imprint of a reborn was added and I was very happy about the moving, deep conversations on the opening weekend. It's nice when you realize that works can move. 
Now I am in preparation for a new work. I am currently communicating with a London company about the limits of a current self-portrait. More precisely, this portrait will be of an artificially intelligent robot whose AI is based on my personality. Once programmed, it will evolve through interaction with human counterparts, i.e. through conversation and information it receives about me through my social media and digital information.
In addition to the negotiation of self, body and 'shell', which has accompanied the portrait for thousands of years, the fetish of the avatar, the self and the artist as fetishized representatives of the creative self, art historical and art market narratives, meet in this self-portrait. The external appearance of the robot is based on a 3D scan of my body. The 'image' is a motorized, sexually functional TPE body. The head is modelled and mechanised separately in order to make facial expressions and gestures as real as possible.
For me, the work ultimately builds on the early photographic series. Especially the emotional and the question of how I deal with artificiality in my life is one that I would like to bring to the fore here, alongside questions of author theory and institutional critique. It is also the first work for me where I work directly with my body and think offensively about selling it. The illusion that the viewer and especially the art buyer, who has no rules or limits in dealing with the doll (as with any art purchase), is part of the work for me.
The realization is progressing astonishingly fast - and admittedly it makes me a little bit sick to my stomach, because there are some legal things to be clarified. The work is produced by a company that specializes in sex robots. I have already worked with the owners and the communication is constructive and open. But it is a company that wants more from the project in the worst case than I would like for an art edition. Here the contractual boundaries must be clear and absolutely watertight, because it is sensitive data and, I am aware of this, double-edged boundaries...
That sound great with LA, I am sure the time over there is more slowly right now, I’m still shocked what is going on in America; that is unbelievable, really crazy times.
During the next days I will come up with some news from the studio, there are several works which I will produce or work during the next weeks I want you to know about :-)
Here are the answers. If you have any further questions other comments please let me know.
The images are coming per wetransfer and are titled with the captions.
I hope you are well, the application for the icci I have sent, let's see what comes, would be really great if it works, I am already quite curious.
In the studio it's been going on a lot, new works are coming up, you I like to tell you a little bit, they are not really easy but I think they have to be done.
On the one hand I am in the planning for a big project. A little bit for the background: on September 2019 the Heidekreis opened with the support of the state of Lower Saxony and the federal government the biggest known slag heap for explosives and chemical weapons in Germany. 
In close cooperation with The Hague-based OPWC, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which has 193 member states worldwide, it was decided to salvage and defuse the ammunition that has been dormant here since the Second World War and which threatens both people and the environment. 
The history of chemical weapons and the most inhuman warfare, but also of reprocessing and rendering them harmless, is linked to the Dethlinger Teich and Munster as no other place in Germany. It ranges from the First World War to the current Syrian war, since the chemical weapons of the Assad regime, whose production is still trying to build on German knowledge, are disposed of here. 
The salvage of the historical contaminated sites, the reprocessing and disposal, which began in 2019, is unprecedented to date. 75 years after the end of the war, the 21st century meets the 20th century at the Dethlinger Teich, the international embedding of Germany, the latest research and socially anchored environmental awareness meets a mass contemptuous and destructive action and thinking; this is what has to be salvaged again and again. 
I was fascinated by the "ceiling" that was laid over one of the largest stockpiles of explosive ordnance in Germany and perhaps even internationally for sealing purposes. The fact that this cover is broken open and the environment is given the chance for sustainable re-naturation is unique. 
The project envisages a two-part work. A series of photographs showing the explosive ordnance sunk into the Dethlingen pond after the Second World War, exposed in 2019. A view into a past that has not yet been is disarmed. 
The sculptural part concerns the practices of covering and breaking open: a 20 cm thick concrete slab is poured on a scale of 1:1 (approx. 50 x 60 m) and the outline of the pond. After completion of the concrete slab, it is broken up into individual parts again. The broken concrete slabs should be walkable. The walkability and thus the own experience of the size of the pond is central. 
Concrete represents the defining building material of the 20th century, which stands for modernity and efficiency, but also for war, violence and security. "exhibiting" as well as breaking up the concrete surface are each part of the work. After dismantling the concrete slabs, the individual fragments are piled up as a sculptural work and presented in public - inside or outside. 
Currently I'm still looking for financial support, the art foundation NRW would like to support the project and also advance the implementation for next year. I'm also in contact with the central council of Jews in Germany because of the work, today I'll try to get in touch with the German Bundestag, but I am not sure if they will do it, but it is good to be in contact with them about the project.
The concept is already in front of the Kunsthalle Mannheim as well as the NS Dokumantationszentrum in Nuremberg to discuss about possibilities to show the work next year, so let's see if it works. I sent you the PDF, sorry it is German but to get an visual impression ..
Thank you so much, I am happy that you like the projects. How about Friday morning, I am totally free. 
The new project is an artistic self-portrait. It’s going to be an artificial intelligent Roboter. The body is a on a 3D scan of my body based the body. The “mind” should be an AI based on personal data and information about me as an artist and as a person and it should develop further by information from the internet and again the conversation the Roboter has. So far a relatively ambitious project where the technology must be very precise.
If Friday morning would fit for you, please let me know which time would be good for you.
I know COVID affected everything, perhaps we can find a way to produce this year and launch next year. How long would the production time be? It could be possible that I have somebody who could help financing the production :-)
I hope the opening of Gerd and Uwe was a great success!!! I wish I was there, but pretty sure I will one over when it is possible.
Before we talk, I want to update you a bit. I was very intensively busy with my portrait project, which means, I prepared the AI with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. That was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with. Also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human, sound strange but this is floating a lot. I am starting now programming the AI this will be finished in November I guess. 
For the body, I did a one on one body scan, (lost 10 kilos in 10 weeks for that) from that scan and several detail photos of my body, the company will work on the rooter and the body. This will be the visual quality of the whole body and also skin will be quite real. 
With the company I talked about a edition of ten „clones“ with AI. One I want to have for exhibitions nine for selling. As this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, I am trying no to plan how to handle this one. I tried to divide the process in 3 phases. Phase 1 was preparation which is now done, also I did several notes and interviews with my assistant during this phase to follow the different thought and changes you went thought during this process.
Phase two will be the production; I hope this will be the easiest part. In that process I will also figure out how to show the doll, like sitting on a table, sitting on a sofa, building a room, that is not clear jet. In terms of the production and how the company will promote the doll, I am working on a contract with a lawyer to make sure that the company will not use my images for other things and promotion, as well every picture of the doll will be only in commitment with me (don’t want to see that piece on you porn you know). Phase three will be showing the piece, will the most difficult part, as I am pretty sure showing an AI communicative robotic sex doll clone, will get a lot of shit storm, press and aside of that a mentally crazy challenge as well, because everybody can do with the clone what they want, especially when somebody buys one. So I am now trying to find a space quite fast to work though this phase as soon as possible, best would be march next year. 
I am now working on a list where to show and if that is possible, some are quite afraid of the piece, others are total oppressed but the time is a bit forcing. I think the best would be to present the piece the first time in an institutional context and afterwards in the gallery and fair context. 
As I’m becoming more and more aware of how difficult and intense this piece is, I want to ask you if you want to work with that piece. I think it is hard to handle but I am sure we can do that and it will be really a new step, but could be a bit forcing. I am trying to figure out which places in Germany, but perhaps there are more interesting places you know.
It would be great if you have some ideas where to show the piece so recently, perhaps also Giovanni got some ideas for London?  
The other big historical pieces, is a bit slower we are still searching for a place but photos are ready, so even if it will not happen, we have the photos!!!!
Did you guys, heard something about Gucci?
Let me know when its good for you to talk, looking forward speaking with you.
Petra invites me to show at her art cologne booth in November, it would be great if you could talk about the conditions.
Great would love to have you here, would be so good to see you guys!!!!! Great news with Mario, tomorrow I am free the whole day, shall we say 11? 
I hope you are good and healthy.
I just got this mail from a Student of the University of London, is there a possibility to accessing aporias for them, perhaps with a time limitation?
Here are some new visual examples from china :-)
Great, we can also do a Skype meeting with my lawyer if you want.
Great that you getting in touch Museum Susch if you need anything from me let me know. I try to meet gurksy again next week and try to support us with Prada. At the moment it is really not good to come to Germany I hope we can celebrate everything by the beginning of next year, now everywhere it is crazy, we just have to go through it and try to stay in a good mood …
I hope you are well in this strange and forcing times. Since some weeks I am in a quite intense production of a new work, which I think will be a new centerpiece for me. Now I am planning the first shows of the piece for next year and already have an institutional show in Germany save in April, afterwards Italy and two shows in Switzerland coming up as in London for that piece. Now I wonder if it would be interesting to transfer the piece also in ar or vor. It is again connect to AI and digital life as many more topic. If it is interesting for you I would love to talk to you about possibilities.
Yes I think now we are on the right person! I will send the contract on Monday to you. Yes, the first one will be around 12.000 the following 4000. At the Moment I am not allowed to move more that 15 km away from my home town until 31th of January. But I think I am allowed to travel for business, if the government will stay longer with this rules I would need something like a official invitation from you for the appointment. But we will see in the end of January. 
I have some news about the doll, it is now a bit difficult than I thought to have the production made here in Germany as I have now found out the German company also has the robotic made by our half-assed guy in England. It seems that he is the only one in Europe working with that kind of dolls.
Now I got the idea if we could ask Vivienne if she could contact exclone directly for me and coordinate the project with them in Chinese, could be much easier and she can possibly see if they are serious. Important would be the guarantee that we have the finished doll at the end of March at the latest in Germany. Maybe she would do that in exchange for a little work or the edition I did with Georg? Do you think Vivienne would do that?
In parallel, I would continue to see how far I can get with the German company, of course it would be good if we could go into production at the end of the week so that we are relaxed in terms of time. The German company can do the project until end of February but the quality of the Chinese company is much higher and as I know from the Germany company the only one who could do it on that level. 
The Chinese company is the only one who have the perfection in terms skin and robotic head, I tried to contact realdoll which is the American company but the didn’t reply, they are not that advanced in terms of the robotic head. The Germany company really wants to do the project, and the prices are much lower but the perfection of the head is not that good. 
If we work with the Chinese company I would say we order one doll for the show and the others when we have buyers. If Vivi would help with the language could be good, I am pretty sure the prices the English company shares are far too high, so it would be good to have the „real numbers“ and terminus of timeline.
For the show we only need one, so working with the Chinese factory would be possible if they commit to produce one by now and the others afterwards step by step when we have a collector who buys it, but without a timeline or a commission to next year or something.
We only work with China if this is possible otherwise I will find a way with the German company I think they are motivated and really interested in the production, but I think it would be good to follow both ways right now.
That’s perfect, looking forward talking to you on Friday.
It took a little time to write, but I think I now have the daring point what the doll should be and may be. Or rather, where the idea came from. Here some ideas of inspiration and what the Roboter and AI will do or better what I would think would be amazing.
I came up with this idea last year during my research about futurism and the question how people will interact and live together. As I work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our life’s. The step to think about a robotic and artificial intelligent counterpart was quite small. From this point, however, I thought that an abstract counterpart is still relatively easy to deal with, for me a personal depth was missing, what exactly does it do to you when you copy a person technologically? So I decided not to take a fictional person but myself. What exactly does it do to me and how much is this copy me. Especially since these artificial persons will have a different form of existence based on me. A form that will act differently, think and "experience" other things. How will these dolls change based on their conversations and their intelligence.
The body of the doll that is now produced has a location chatbot programmed. Which can conduct standardized conversation, also watch a movie with his opposite and talk about it, for example. It is able to write messages and speech is associated with its facial expressions. I want it to be as close as possible to my own personality, so it can also answer personal questions, use language similarly and also mimic opinions and reactions.
Conversations she has when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, changes with and absorbs the influences of the world. The possibility that it completely changes I find very exciting because I also do not know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me. For me, it's a lot about splitting off and approaching one's own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
I am looking forward talking to you about that, an hour is perfect.
Thank you for your great support and connecting to Eyas!!! Dear Eyas, great to meet you here.
Puppet Project is absolutely ok :-) Exactly in march the puppet will already be here in Germany, or better 3 of them will be here than. I am already very excited and looking forward to it. But I am even more happy, of course, about this great news.
Maybe it would be the easiest if we meet online, via zoom or Skype, for example and talked about the project? I am sure Clemens has already told you a lot, but maybe you have some questions, that I would be happy to answer. In terms of time I am very flexible, despite the time difference, which shouldn't bother us.
Nadia Ismael of Kunsthalle Gießen just called me and asked me if we could also do a third option for the LBBW, she is talking to Gregor today and she thinks that the new series of body parts which I will do in the next weeks would fit perfectly for the collection. 
They will decide in May she told me so it would be a problem to offer them as well now an send the photos when they are ready. But she would need a price for that, bit difficult to do a price for a not existing piece I know but I already have the measurements which will be 160 x 200 cm framed in Aluminum and Plexiglas. Can you estimate a rough price for that?
I will send some images from the setting in Gießen when we figured it out a little bit more clearly. The guys from zaz10 came up through a friend from LA, we thought about doing something this year but now there was a free time slot so I jumped in. it will be on times square next Monday, so exited how that will be look like.
For the moulds you can contact Nadia Ismael the Director directly, the mould can deliver to Gießen anytime, they have no exhibition running at the moment so much space for them ;-)
Sounds perfect, I am looking forward seeing you on Wednesday 13:00.
That sounds really interesting, we should definitely apply when it’s possible!!!!
I just sented some images via WhatsApp, sorry they just came yesterday, the production is quite intense but really good and we are nearly at the end of the hardware, all good in time and very close on the details and measurements! 
The AI is nearly finished, so everything is on time, next thing is going shopping for all my „me’s“, pretty sure I can handle that ;-)
Since today we are in a much harder lockdown again until April 18th, so everything will be closing again, nothing surprising but I hope it will we better soon, we will see, first journey will be of course Milano!!!! 
All good, waiting for the representative, which will come tomorrow or on Friday, it is already in cologne now!!!!!!!!!!!
I don’t know, as I think Gregor wants to have a really good price that how I know him, but as it is a new series, shown for the first time directly in a institution, I think we could also offer him one with 20% off. I don’t really know what is the best for us, it would be great if we could get the deal but money is always good to have, but I think we should go to low with the price, perhaps we can offer him a good price for two, as we made the two other offers very fair and low, perhaps this could be a bit higher offer? I have no idea if that is common or not :-)
Here is the Invitation card for Gießen.
I hope you are good. I just finished installing the show next show in Gießen, with the Project I told you about, with the robotic artificial intelligence „clone“. Here are some impressions of the show, as promised. Now I am waning for the museums in Germany to open again, actually the opening would be today, now I hope it will be open soon.
In 2015 you graduated at Kunstakademie Düsserldorf as a master student of Andreas Gursky. What is the most important thing you learnt from him?<answer>Gursky teached me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics I was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece? He forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually.
Where does your interest in the objectification of the human body come from?<answer>The human body is the smallest room you as an individual has to deal with. This room is set in the space around you. I am trying to trying to find the line between being inside of this room and outside, what is impact you have on the outside and of other individuals. I choose the present and the absent of the body because i think this is one of the most changing and stabile topics at the same time in our society at the same time.
Why did you choose to take photos using the camera on your iPhone instead of using a digital/analog camera?<answer>Most of my topics and ideas are coming from the daily live and also digital communication is a topic i am questionings a lot. For some the smart phone is a big part where this takes place so for me it is a logical and consequent step to work with the phone not only as the place of inspiration, but also as a part of the production.
In January Cassina Projects presented an exhibition titled Area Caproni u8opia, a two person show conceived by the dialogue between your work and Georg Herold's. What is the meaning of the title?<answer>The Title refers to the area where the Gallery is and the Flight Number of our first flight to Milan. We decided to chose that title because that place is the pace where we show this dialogue for the first time.
You work with different mediums including photography, video, sculpture and VR. Which medium do you think is the most powerful and gives best voice to your works?<answer>The medium is always related to the content of the work, so I’m always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with. There is not really one medium I prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end.
A new sculptural work is part of the show Area Caproni u8opia. Do you want to tell us more about this sculpture in particular?<answer>The new sculptures came from an artistic research about the borders of human relationships now a days what changed during the last years and how are we integrate artificiality and absence in our way of thinking, treating and interacting. That leads me to sex dolls and the question of an image your counterpart has to fit in. I was interested in the line between imagination and reality. What kind of image you fill in a person, how big is the part of imagination? I saw the border in the production moulds of sex dolls, these edge between the part where the material for the body will be filled in and the frame which holds the two mould together. These Edge is for me that line. So I took these moulds and transformed them into bronzes.
Your work spanning across photography, sculpture, video and VR, underscores how homologation and standardization jeopardize what’s left of individuality. Where is the incessant transformation taking us to next?<answer>The Avatar series plays with the tension between their artificiality and their otherwise human postures. the way the mannequins seem to have a physical interaction comes across as eerie, yet almost comforting. While the digital and the virtual are reshaping our individuality and behavioral patterns.
Are mannequins themselves evolving by emulating our nature?<answer>The mannequin in my work are placeholders, they describes in that series something related to the human being but not being human. That is what the Avatar is for us in the digital world.  These mannequin bodies I am using make these questions on behavior, individuality and perhaps reality, a doubt of engagement, seriousness and sometimes misunderstandings visual.
What got you into making art?<answer>Actually there no specific point, I was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
What are your inspirations?<answer>My inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
Your work embraces VR and new technology, can you tell me about that?<answer>To me technology I a tool to transfer a content into an art piece, so If I have an idea in mind a content for an art piece I am searching for the strongest medium to form that content.
Can you tell me a little about your use of avatars and mannequins?<answer>The avatar is a digital identity, as I am dealing a lot with communication and digital communication in my work, mostly the question how the way of communication affected us and what is the meaning of the way we use to communicate. To make situation of communication visual I used mannequins, because the avatar is actually nothing really visual for me. Mannequins are place holders for human beings in my work as in real life. I decided to use mannequins because I want to have the questions I am dealing with in my work generalized and not connected to one special person or me. Also the points of standardization, were important to me.
What advice would you give to young women wanting to make a career as an artist?<answer>I would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. See as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
What have you been up to in quarantine?<answer>I was very concentrated in working in my studio and preparing everything for the next exhibitions.
What are your plans and hopes for the future?<answer>I hope to expand my skills in terms of research, media and content, finding new questions about the world we are living in and how we are dealing with it, during our time.
Can you first tell me how you chose to become a photographer and what led you to working with Professor Andreas Gursky?<answer>I didn’t choose to become a photographer, I am an artist. But of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which I transform content into something visualized. I work with installation, video, sculpture and performance as well, and this was one of the reasons I wanted to work with Andreas Gursky. At Kunstakademie Düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (Freie Kunst), which is not explicitly a photography class. The interdisciplinary discourse that arises when you bring together artists working in many different ways and mediums is more than enriching. The focus in Gursky’s teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
Has the legacy of the Düsseldorf School been helpful to your current and prior successes?<answer>Kunstakademie Düsseldorf is where Bernd and Hilla Becher led a class (just like Gursky today) and established what became the so-called Becher or Düsseldorf Photo School. In their class were artists like Laurenz Berges, Andreas Gursky, Candida Höfer, Axel Hütte, Thomas Ruff, Jörg Sasse, Thomas Struth, so it is obviously one of the best places to study if your work has anything to do with photography. Düsseldorf and its surrounding cities are saturated with many artists who live in the area. The exchange with them is very frequent, not only in the academy but also in daily life as well. You get to know them quite easily, and you can learn from them personally and professionally.
With your "heads" series, what were you thinking about and what were you trying to express with those images? You also took these photos with your iPhone. How did that experience change and influence the images?<answer>The idea of the series came up when I had new identification photos made for my passport: how little character and emotion can you express with your face to get the right biometric passport picture? What does a face need to be a person, and when does a form become a head? Standardization is a big topic in our society. With this idea in mind I observed the mannequins all over the city without eyes, noses, and mouths. I started to take their "portrait" to find out the line between abstract form and head. Using my iPhone is an absolutely logical step for me, because I produce most of my pieces on the go while in my everyday life. The iPhone has become a natural part of our daily life, so for me it makes sense to use this camera now.
How did "heads" lead you to the "Avatar" series? Did it grow organically from "heads"?<answer>The heads series was about trying to find a personalty in a form in some way. This filling of a form with a personality led me to think about the digital personality every one of us builds up by using Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc. I asked myself: what do these avatars have to do with our real personalities?
What kind of camera did you use to make "Avatar"?<answer>The photographs were also taken by my iPhone.
The "heads" seem to gender-neutral, whereas in "Avatar" there are some markers of gender, could you expand on that? With "Avatar" are you trying to express issues about gender? Or bigger themes?<answer>No, I‘m not. For me, the different levels of communication are the main topic of the series. The question has always been, is digital communication something different than a real, face-to-face communication between human beings?
There is a long history in photography of representing mannequins, puppets, or dolls—are you referencing other artists' works? Think of the Surrealists, Vanessa Beecroft, Laurie Simmons, Hans Bellmer, etc.<answer>Of course, I am aware of these artists, the use of mannequins, and their relevance in art history. Bellmer and Cindy Sherman have been especially important for my series. But the most important influence is Oskar Schlemmer and his theories about the ideal human in space.
In a few sentences please tell us where you see your work heading?<answer>I see my work more and more questioning the world and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided into series and pieces as a part of the whole thing.
Can you tell us a little bit about the series? How did you start to work with mannequins?<answer>I started working with mannequins as a form of placeholder for people and also as a visualization of avatars. Since I have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work I needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way. The series are for me different studies, partly situational, which refer to each other in different ways and are linked to each other. So in different series the same dolls appear in a different form.
In Not Lost in You, how did you choose the special pattern clothes for those moving bodies to wear?<answer>Since there is a performative act in the video series not lost in you and one person acts with the avatar, but I consider the basic feeling and question of the work to be something general that everyone knows, I also wanted to abstract and generalize the human body from the person acting in the video, to achieve this I chose the ornamental Nylon fabrics.
As your work often deals with communication and technology, do you have any particular observation about social media in the past few months of quarantine?<answer>I believe that digital communication was a great relief at that time as a bridging factor and for me time has proven once again that the purely digital is not a possibility for human interaction. The human being needs the real counterpart and the direct contact.
What are you working on now?<answer>At the moment I'm trying to find further boundaries, both in terms of media and content, and to ask the questions about the real and the artificial in our world even more animalistically. That's exactly how I am reminding and making aware of topics that occupy me and that I am working on.

You work mainly with manikins, distorting and abstracting the human body. Can you explain how your work deals with closeness and intimacy?<answer>I am questioning topics like closeness and intimacy by focusing on the digital realm as it sets the terms for development and changes our way of thinking and behaving. I am working mostly with mannequins, as placeholders for the human individual, for two reasons. First because the questions I am dealing with are general rather than personalized. My work deals with intimacy in that it searches for it in the digital realm. This searching is not related to one person, or even me, but to everybody. A living human body would immediately produce relations and possibly identification with the person. I am interested in conceptual questions of a more general nature; about how to deal with this kind of being in between worlds with their different definitions and rules. The other reason I am working with mannequins is that I am interested in avatars, as the digital identity of a human being, something which does not have a physical body. To visualize the interaction between avatars, I needed something closely related to the human body yet that is also abstract and far removed from it. Working with very abstract mannequins was the right step for me to turn questions I was working with into a visual form. The project Gliedermensch (2017) is also a direct reference to Art and Photography history as an attempt to question continuity related to new notions about the role and function of machines in our times. The central reference for that series was the Romantic author Heinrich von Kleist’s essay “On the Marionette Theater”.
The smartphone is your main choice of photographic apparatus. To what extent does this tool shape your artistic process?<answer>When I start working on a new piece, I always start with a specific question or content I need to deal with.  with the issues of how our daily lives and society more generally is affected by technology, the iPhone was the perfect and most consequent tool to work with. Questioning and reflecting on digital communication and our digital identities, the smartphone is the primary place where these process and interactions happen. It therefore makes sense to me to work with the smartphone also as a tool, since a lot of the questions I work with are connected to it.
In what way would you say your work discusses identity and humanity?<answer>I am discussing where human beings find their self in the digital and real world. Today it is obvious that the digital realm changes our way of dealing with each other, in both positive and negative ways. And this is what I am trying figure out: What does this change mean to us, and how does it transform the manner in which human beings are dealing with each other. Identity and Humanity are two quite contested frames. They are explored, also in an artistic manner. To me, as an artist, it is important to include a contemporary feeling of these terms in my work.
One of your recent projects is the development of a Virtual Reality (VR) piece including an animated artificial intelligence. How did this involvement with VR transpire for you, and what are the politics implied in this work?<answer>This work grew out of the question of whether a conversation is a real conversation when you have it with a bot, and not with a human being. A bot is not related to a person; it forms its answers and questions out of algorithms, not of interests or intentions. Today we are routinely talking to avatars, bots and human beings. What is the difference, in terms of quality of the conversation, realness, importance and exchange? This is a question I am frequently dealing with in my work. In the VR-work Aporias (2019), I wanted to find out what the essence of a conversation with bots is, so I had to meet them to talk to them. To come as close as possible to a real meeting, VR was to me the logical choice of medium for creating a situation where I could meet and interact with AIs. VR was something like a border. To outline and emphasize this border, in the exhibition space I have replicated the setup of the VR-situation in which one encounters the bots, which is a table and chairs where the observer and the bots are sitting on.
Both the use of manikins and the manner in which the borders between painting and photography are blurred in your work, evoke a number of art historical references. Are there any specific periods or artists that have inspired you in your aesthetic search?<answer>I think there are several artist inspiring me, Bruce Nauman, is very important for me, as Sigmar Polke, Hans Bellmer, but also Leonardo Da Vinci, Andreas Gursky, Wolfgang Tillmans, Oskar Schlemmer, Barbara Kruger.
Why photography?<answer>Because I like that the picture is generated from the world we are existing in. From this basis of that “real” photograph I am working through my questions, and transform the image into that question. As I am working with questions and issues related to our current everyday life, I always need to have one foot in this daily world. I don’t see my self as a photographer, but to me this medium is one of the most interesting arenas, because photography gets more and more fluid. My starting point for a work is not a medium, but a particular content or question. Thus for me the step from photography to video loops, which I have included in several projects, was a logical move, not really a switch between mediums.
The bombardment in the early hours of August 21, 2013, was different then all previous ones. The people in the rebel-controlled areas around the Syrian capital of Damascus heard a strange whistling sound before the rockets detonated.
Soon hundreds of people with breathing problems streamed into the makeshift hospitals, others were found dead in their houses, their faces still covered with the towels they tried to protect themselves with. Those who survived the attack were short of breath and plagued by cramps. 
Some had to be treated for five days with oxygen, water, and atropin, which stops the transmission of nerve signals and is used as antidote for nerve gas poisoning. One week after the attack many were still sick and breaking out in sweat, extremely weary and suffering from hallucinations.  
The worst however, according to one patient, were the nightmares. Activitists and the “Doctors without Borders“ organisation informed later that at least 335 people had been killed. In an area east of Damascus around 600 patients were admitted to a hospital, 125 of which died, among them 35 children. The sypmtoms – cramps, foaming in mouth and nose, reduced pupils – were clear indicators of nerve gas.
The first victims had arrived alive, but many who were exposed to the gas for a longer period of time did not make it that far and were brought to the hospital after they had perished. Thus far a report in Welt from August 29, 2013.
Researching the conflict in Syria, in northern Germany Louisa Clement discovered the remainders of the decomposition of chemical weapons: jet-black glass stones, in which – resembling pigments – the death-bringing potential is bound.
Multiple loads of these stones, which are otherwise for example used for building roads, are placed on two capital pedestals in three rows at a time in the exhibition space and combined with a sound installation based on original recordings of the cooling process.
Both terrifying and beautiful, disturbingly dark, crystalline, stony and glassy they lie there – the material is sober and sublime at the same time, almost attractive and convenient if observed without the background described; but brutal, disgusting and cold once the story is known and one is aware of the special content.   
The retention of the glass stones in Fuhrwerkswaage Kunstraum and the almost geometrically straight and sacred meaning of their deeply opaque materiality and history shock and make speechless. How should one react – what reaction does such a work demand? Let's try a detour, as they remind me spontaneously of the works of land art, of the works of Richard Long and Robert Smithson. 
A Line Made by Walking was created in England in 1967 and marks the begin of the artistic trails of Richard Long, which he inscribes in the grass while walking up and down in a straight line and documents photographically. Besides the circle form, which manifests in Long's work early on, here he constructs the line of his proverbial work (mass x distance x time), visible as trace of time. 
Walking distance is always time distance as well and everyone finds it fascinating how trails and then routes are established, how grass and vegetation overall are displaced over time. Many people choose an efficient and rational, normally the shortest route between two points, a line which remains visible after a while – like ant trail in the forest. 
Long's “sculptures“ are made visible in nature through a plot process, through the physical employment of walking a route. 
The day- and week-long walks in England, in Ireland, in the Alps, the Himalayas or in the deserts of Africa and Australia which followed his first line everywhere in the world, manifest themselves as artistic exploration and document the physical presence and individual time-and-space-experience of the artist. 
For the artist, the more “human“ aspect of the work is made visible by the temporary arrangement of stones, as the limited presence hints at the reality and transcience of human life. Sculptures, installations, and since 1981 also wall works are created which are not placed in the exterior, but through their materiality and arrangement are still connected to the mentioned landmarks. 
A short detour – Last Monday it became known that the Americans are now turning the war screw in Vietnam up another notch – they used poison gas against the guerilla. “American and Vietnamese troops have used poison gas against the Vietcong multiple time“ Associated Press reports from Saigon. "Different non-lethal irritant gases were tested in the areas of Second and Third Corps." Though US-spokespeople said that gas temporarily disabling an opponent is a more humane weapon than a bomb or a bullet, the gas-story earned the US the worst press of the Vietnam war so far. "The Americans have handed the communists the perfect propaganda weapon", the Daily Mail in London stated. Radio Peking raged: "The usage of poison gas by the American bandits in South Vietnam proves their complete disregard of the elemental principles of humanity and shows them as fascist cannibals." (...) In reality global opinion  has fallen prey to the gas trauma of World War I, which led to the banishment of all gas weapons by the Geneva poison gas convention in 1925. The gas-taboo had only been broken three times since then: by the Japanese in China, the Italians in Abyssinia and – according to inofficial reports – the Egyptians in Yemen. (from: DER SPIEGEL 14/1965, Freie Jagd, 31.03.1965)
This leads me to the second land art artist Robert Smithson (and his “sucessor“ Sam Durant), who at the same time developed his theory of entropy, of sites and non-sites, crystalline forms, mirrors, soil and trees etc. in the US.
What fascinates to this day, more than any other land art artists, is his new definition of existing conditions using different viewpoints. And insofar 1970's PARTIALLY BURIED WOODSHED at the Kent State University in Ohio is a remarkable piece of work. Robert Smithson conceived and executed this work during a week-long guest residence in January 1970. Clay was heaped upon a wodden shed by a digger until it collapsed. Years later it burned completely. And again 20 years later Sam Durant enters the game, who – given the title Partially Buried 1960s/70s Dystopia Revealed (Mick Jagger at Altamont) & Utopia Reflected (Wavy Gravy at Woodstock) – explores the utopian and dystopian moment brought about by the two music festivals.  
Durants paralel of this symbolic-historian comparison follows the idea of Simpson to not only remember the students who were killed at Kent State during the Vietnam protest, but also touches the many statements regarding the entropy of the 1960s and 70s, when the world was confronted with change – and Durant includes sound, that is music, in his wood shed sculpture. (http://www.robertsmithson.com/essays/pbw.pdf; http://clui.org/ludb/site/partially-buried-woodshed)
Let's return to Louisa Clement's installation. The comparison with land art might be born of a whim, but opens the problematic field of a sculpture that has both a political and aesthetic impact. Space, time, form, content, only these four aspects determine our perception and experience of art. What upon first glance is a sober arrangement of broken glass stones, discloses a horrible secret once the material and context is laid bare. Insofar it is no longer surprising that Louisa Clement uses sculptural methods, even sound in this installation as it is always a special line of argument to question one's preferred material by using a new one – and here photography (and medial images in general) as evidence- and indicator-framework with a space installation. What we see and hear is the shocking rigidity of an entropic process. Entropy as model for (our) society.
Sarin, Richard Long, Robert Smithson, Sam Durant and Louisa Clement therefore exist in a genealogy of a spatial, political time stamping level, which contents of materiality always interact with and express a political consequence or motivation of action. I find it extraordinary that Louisa Clement, whose work methods of photographical observation of her surroundings and quotidian always had a constant, with this radical sculptural statement phrases a new view, a haptic dimension in the virtual space of possibility that is everyday warfare. Many thanks for this! Even if we are momentarily speechless in the face of the contemporary reality of a flood of refugees and refugee politics in Europe. 
The invasion of reality into the imaginary does not happen in our art spaces, but radically politically in our immediate surroundings. Here and now. We should have a voice and spirit that brings cause and effect in a different context then the one of knowledge and power. 
This correlation as symbolical construct creates an awareness for strangeness, for the other, and it creates energy. Energy which is not wasted. Entropy made visible.(R. Smithson, 1973)
A futuristic-seeming pictorial world first opens up in Louisa Clement’s series Head (2014 –15), with its enigmatic reflections on the surfaces of nonhuman heads with blurred contours. Monochrome backgrounds intensify the feeling of a vague, undefined location but also herald attra ctive spaces of potential. To judge from the relationship between figure and space, Clement relates on the one hand to early modernity, where the figure was already being used as an abstraction of the human body: as ist plastic representative.1 On the other hand, the unsettling quality that her paintings emanate can be traced chiefly to the style, which suggests a digitally
processed image. The inanimate figures she chooses, as in Head I (2014, pp.13ff. see fig. 1), function as alienated proxies and are stylized into icons in a digitized world that has spawned new cultural tech nologies, codes, and systems of thought. The featureless faces repeatedly appearing as sexless identification figures in a postindustrial, highly commercial ized present generate an explosiveness in terms of humans as material and of the politics of body, origin, and power.
Just as in the Avatar series (2016) or Gliedermenschen (Limb Beings, 2017, pp. 26–31), mannequins from department store windows serve as a basic motif for reproduction via a smartphone camera, thus demonstrating the completely different conditions that creating a photographic image involves. In particular, Clement reflects on the radically changed scope of the photographic medium: how its integration into mobile devices endowed with computer functions is more or less equivalent to a metamorphosis.3 User-friendly controls have made digital operation the norm, transforming our entire global communications culture. These crucial
consequences for a contemporary concept of reality, and its effects on the world we live in, caused Clement to question the fundamentals of her previous artistic work. Clement took as her starting point the status quo of digital image production, and in her creations she not only raises the question of the extinction of analogue photography but also pursues the debate about the function of the image in the context of digitization. Photography has become part of everyday communication and interaction, but what type of information is actually conveyed via the medium, and what interests are represented, is seldom scrutinized. Clement’s approach, along with her studies at the Düsseldorf Academy, on the one hand, place her in the local tradition of pondering a media-mediated reality and, on the other, reflect completely new patterns of perception.
In her three groups of works already mentioned, the c onstructed images, similarly composed with their motif of anonymous humanshaped dummies, serve as the starting point for locating humans in a digital environment. The figures in the Avatar series are made of monochrome
fiberglass in soft pastel shades like pink, yellow, or green. Two or three figures have always been arranged in a composition, and, due to the chosen viewpoint, only detail shots of the groups and their limbs can be seen. The largely androgynous bodies take center stage, and their
trendy colorfulness, set against the retrospectively altered black background, evokes a resemblance to a motif borrowed from the commercial worlds of pop and advertising culture images. But the dummies are not conveying a sales-oriented message. Rather, Clement is reversing the meaning of the images: the substitute human is acting as a reflection not of reality
but of its simulation. Nothing that advertises a mass-market product is detectable, which nullifies the viewer’s associations and assumptions. But at the same time this act leads to cultural strategies being laid bare: man himself is declared an identityless consumer object, and extinc tion of the subject is being proclaimed. Ultimately, with her hyperdigital image aesthetic, achieved through complex lighting control and manipulative image editing, the artist is leading us into new areas of interaction. The title of the series, Avatar, refers to a term that has become established since the 1990s for an artificial image of a human in the virtual world and in social media. It is a link to self-representation in the virtual world, but it raises a huge discrepancy with reality. Clement turns her attention to precisely this contradiction and focuses on changing social techniques.
Conscious and mindful perception is denied to human beings in the digital world and its social forums. Hence, in the not lost in you series (2017, pp. 34–39) the former puppets are touched and palpated performatively with a real hand on a human body. This exemplifies the missing
physical contact. In one of her earliest Portrait series, Clement had already made detail photographs of body parts covered with sometimes eye-catching clothing like leopard prints. But these images, resembling cutouts or clippings and aesthetically reminiscent of articles posted online, do not reveal the person depicted in their entirety. The works have titles such as liked
(2013, fig. 2) and illustrate the play on absence despite presence. They reduce to absurdity the self-esteem derived from public recognition and the fetishizing of one’s own appearance by means of the new technologies, and conversely they comment on the changed, fake body consciousness and self-embellishment.
In Petite Poucette,5 French philosopher Michel Serres introduced the concept of “Thumbelina.” Contact between one’s own skin and the touchscreen fosters a connection between the virtual and real worlds. This moment becomes an iconic act that opens up new speculations about the
relationship between man and machine.6 Against a background of the dynamic development of new technologies and of a digital revolution, the growing together of body and technology is a highly controversial border line experience. Out of this specific relationship between inside and outside, between self and environment, emerges an interplay that no longer seems to differentiate. Clement addresses this phenomenon impressively in her new work Schmerzraum (Space of Distress, 2019, fig. 3).
In tune with the ever-advancing progress in science and technology and a pre dominantly computer-driven society, Clement makes use of one of the most up-to-date medical achievements: “e-dermis.” This is an artificial electronic skin developed at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore for people with prostheses; its purpose is to restore feeling when they
handle things—to give them back a sense of touch. The sensations of pain and pleasure, both unique characteristics of living beings, can be simulated here and made usable by artificial intelligence. Clement papers a whole room with this artificial skin, thus once more ccreating a reversal of orderliness and conditions. This brings us up against the radical criteria and consequences involved in amalgamating current society and body technologies. The concept of being human is questioned and challenged.What are the consequences of outsourcing our consciousness? What happens when computer technologies are implanted into the human organism? These possibilities have figured in speculative visions of the future in literature
or the cinema and have led to a separate philosophical genre (posthumanism), but they have long since become reality. Louisa Clement takes ethical self-doubt to a climax in her latest
VR-Arbeit (VR Work, 2019). Here, the visitor encounters an artificial species—her invention of the Gliedermensch—and receives, in conversation with the digital being, answers to his questions that, determined by an algorithm, are sometimes truthful and sometimes not. Clement’s work relentlessly seeks to confront the question of human existence in the digital
age. Whether the outcome will be the conquest of man or the victory of humanity remains an open question.
Louisa Clement’s artistic education was primarily as a photographer, but her activity has not been confined to classical photography, at least not since she created her mirror objects in 2015. In this analysis of individual groups of photographic works, I shall seek to show how the artist has exhausted a limited, medium-specific concept of the two-dimensional photograph, and at times transformed it, and how this is the almost inevitable upshot of the contemporary sociopolitical questioning that her approach involves.
Let us begin with an apparently peripheral phenomenon. Even if, in the context of discussion of photography, it is tempting to pass over the question of pictorial content in favor of clarifying technical development, there is nonetheless one technical detail that should be covered first—because it is the hallmark of the artist’s thoroughgoing conceptual approach. In contrast to many well-known photographers (Hiroshi Sugimoto, for example) who use a nineteenth-century plate camera, Clement em ploys
not a large-format camera for high-resolution images but the camera on her smartphone, thus utilizing an everyday object to produce art. This sort of contemporaneity is already discernible in her on one’s way series produced in 2012–13. She shows cut-out-like details of railway train interiors. With these abstracted views—not initially identifiable, but then becoming perceptible for what they are—we can talk of a transformation of the visual experience of everyday things. Sven Beckstette rightly draws attention to the way that Clement here has “chosen perspectives and then edited the images in such a way that the details drawn from known reality dissolve into geometric, abstract compositions. And in the delicate pastel shades that reveal not only the artist’s sensitivity to color but also how Clement’s development started in painting before moving on to photography.“ This painterly look, not at all uncommon in modern photographic history, is emphasized by the use of the smartphone camera and the resulting shallow depth of field of the picture. In this connection, it is also important to recognize that Clement’s photos are generally not the products of a quick, spontaneous act of image formation. It is particularly true of the early group of works on one’s way that the image draws the viewer into contemplative consideration. This engagement with technology and its function would not change in the years that followed.
In looking at the subsequent works, it is important to keep in mind that Clement essentially operates in thematic groups or series of works. This is emphasized in an assertion from early 2018: “My approach is as much conceptual as visual. I see my output as a network, made up of series and works, that grows denser with each item and traces an ever-deepening picture of our times.”
This becomes apparent in the following fifty-five-part series Head (2014 –15), which does not simply mark a crux in Clement’s work at the thematic level. The heads depicted are those of shop-window mannequins. With these figures, determined above all by their arrangement and ordering, we are dealing with faceless apparitions, largely deindividualized and hence also sexless: no more than allusions to human beings. All the same, complete uniformity is fended off with various different colors, shapes, and outer surfaces of the objects, and with the startling variety of image sizes, so that one really can talk of anthropomorphic residues. These allusions
to human appearances generate an emotional unease in the observer that strongly recalls the surreal tradition of the doll photographs of Hans Bellmer (1902–1975).
Fundamental to Clement’s contemporary approach here is a serial presentation, and one that concentrates exclusively on the head. Precisely because of this, the sightless Heads can ultimately be seen as the logical outcome of a society fixated on outward appearances. Here it becomes clear that human beings themselves have turned into goods—cost factors and asset values—and so the thematic approach of using shop-window mannequins is logical. This is continued in Clement’s next series, fracture (2014). Here our attention is directed not to the heads of the mannequins but to their arms and hands. And fracture is not in the strictest sense a series, in that its pictorial organization is not focused on the central vertical axis, for the examination of various details brings in changing groupings, some of them seemingly ornamental. And switching between portrait and landscape formats has the same effect.
At this point, a short, more general digression on the photographic image seems appropriate. A classical conception of the medium, longheld and still accepted in everyday usage in the medium today, takes the photograph as a depiction or reflection of reality. But artistic photo graphy cannot restrict itself to such a concept and, on the contrary, in some of its manifestations (Appropriation Art, for example) diverges so far from it that reality’s reflection is reflected once again. But one cannot grasp Clement’s approach through such a simple dichotomy, for it calls into question the conventional understanding of reality. It is also concerned with content, and only after that with the medium. Since Head Clement has been concentrating primarily on the theme of the body and the inter linked question of the boundaries of what is human. Where is the beginning of the artificial, and where does the idea of the human, its nature, cease?
How are the shifts and changes in the human, the integration of artifi cial elements into human beings, to be comprehended? What social consequences result, or what conceptions of Man and of power are bound up in these changes?
Artificial interventions in the supposed “nature” of humans are not actually at all new; they have long been everyday occurrences, as we can see from a glance at, among many other things, our dentition, with is crowns and ultimate dental implants. And prostheses have been used for centuries to alleviate limitations on bodily mobility. The artificial heart (since 1969) is as little of an exotic one-off as the insulin pump for diabetics (since the 1990s), and it would not be difficult to list more examples. In recent years, though, interventions in the human body by technology
and medicine have taken on a new quality, and as a result the question of the boundaries of the human has acquired an alarming prominence. In its extreme forms, or in visionary concepts, the classical human–machine opposition has been morphed into a hybrid form that focuses attention on the question of where humanity’s borders lie. The changes to the image of man that have been outlined can be fitted into the cultural-historical tradition of the search for a “new man”
which began (at the latest) with the advent of Christianity, reaching a preliminary peak in fascism’s totalitarian utopia and the October Revolution in Russia, before, via a broad theoretical discussion, continuing in the current technical modification of the human as a (disguised) ideological practice. That art has contributed in many ways to the history of this reflection of human existence is well-known, at any rate in the modern age.  So how is the question of the altered image of the human that we have outlined articulated in the work of Clement? Is her explicit artistic purpose to raise questions about the interpersonal and about contempo rary political topics in her work?5 After radicalizing deindividualized heads to monochrome surfaces in the Portrait series in 2015—in the form of city-light advertisement placards following the generally accepted CMYK color model (Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and BlacK)—and thus quitting the photographic medium as narrowly defined, in the same year she went on to alter the form of pictoriality in the plastic work transformationsschnitt (Transformation Section, 2015).6 The intensified question of the image of humanity led Clement, albeit with some difficulty, to give up photography.
In the Head series, we can already see that photographic optics are coupled with various forms of abstraction that concentrate largely on the motif and on the elements of image size and image-capture techn ology. Radicalization is apparent in further photographic works. The Avatar group (2016) consists of large, strongly colored images. Even an arthistorically ill-educated observer will not fail to see parallels with the dolls of Oskar Schlemmer (1888–1943). As so often happens, the reservoir of shattered utopias of modernism serves as a historical wrapper for the creativity of the contemporary artist.7 The emphasis in the fractures group on details and extracts, for example, is radicalized along with the Avatars, so that the ever-changing composition hinders recognition of any reality beyond the image. At the same time, though, the seductive beauty of these sweeping, strongly colored forms on a black, seemingly placeless background creates an eerie effect, with the grouping of two or more figures suggesting a relationship of communication. It soon becomes clear that the anthropomorphic forms are not real people, but, once again, standing shop-window dummies. Their smooth, shiny surfaces, however, only evoke imaginings of (new) humans; they fail to show reality itself. If in the Avatar group the figures largely dominate, and their context (or background) is only recognizable in a few places in the form of black planes, then in the next group, Gliedermenschen (Limb Beings, 2017), things have changed. Rather as in the fracture sequence, in these stretched-format images the concentration of motifs shifts away from the body and toward black arms and joints. The smoothness of their outer surfaces hints all the more at prostheses. To put it in pathetical terms, the forms seem as though “almost completely dehumanized, nothing more than casings, as though soot-blackened or doused in pitch—hunted, marked by fate, wounded, despairing.” The extracted and cut-out-looking forms emerge entirely through sidelighting. The theme of living together appears in some pictures in the group, particularly in the enigmatic interaction of hands. Following on from this, though even more clearly from the Avatar sequence, a little later on Clement developed the group not lost in you (2017), in which she deserted the medium of photography for short video loops. Here a tight-fitting reddish or black glove bearing a striking ornamental pattern on a white ground interacts with the shop-window mannequins from Avatar. In this confrontation with the moving hand, the figures—all at once seemingly lifeless—are slowly, now and then erotically, grasped and fondled. But how authentic, how human, is this moving hand? Is there a real human hand inside the glove, or is the scene digitally animat ed, thus making it just as dehumanized as the rather alluring and lovely figures, and thus in glossy-aesthetic mode, animated only by artificial life?
For the viewer the question is left open, although the motion in the work is particularly unsettling.
Louisa Clement has surely not yet pursued her artistic questions about the state of mankind and a contemporary comprehension of humanity to the very end. It is already becoming apparent that her work, both within and outside of the context of classical photographic images, is pressing on into a new sort of artistic image. This will involve interaction and communication with artificial humans. And this interaction will occur not physically but in a visual, even a virtual, space where artificial intelligence will help the robot to become a true counterpart. Louisa Clement’s art does not reflect this reality, for it is no longer clear which reality it is that we are living in. Will this altered reality go hand in hand with åa change in the idea of what is human?
About the series Heads by Louisa Clement. What is the most popular camera in the world? It’s not a Leica nor a Canon, Nikon nor Olympus, but it is the iPhone 6 -  at least that  is what Apple is claiming on its website World Gallery where you can find photos by iphone users along with tips and tricks for better photography. For example, Gabby K. added a picture of a person on a stone, which protrudes from a lake somewhere in the federal state of Washington. The special effect of the image is explained as follows: "Soft Light coupled with focus on reflections gives photos often a dreamy, ethereal quality. On this particular picture the composition makes it seem almost as if the person is floating. "A surreal cactus landscape immersed in the evening light of Phoenix achieves its appeal, so we read, by a restricted palette of reds and oranges. A black and white picture of raindrops sent in by Paul O. could “originate from the 1950s school of subjective photography. " “Even an everyday motif, like drops of water on a hood, can be captured from a unique perspective and look fascinating," The website does not seem to be focused on historic reference but rather on photographic effects, which is not surprising, after all, it's also about the marketing of apps and accessories.
Although Louisa Clement uses an iPhone for her photos, this much is clear: her images hardly count to the favorites of the World Gallery’s editorial board. Between the dramatic natural spectacles, breathtaking dynamic city scenes and exotic animal photographs, her works would be lonely foreign bodies among them - this is not because the artist is using the outdated iphone5 but rather, because her paintings are deliberately missing everything spectacular and sensational, dreamy and fascinating, because Clement concentrates entirely on the outlying everyday things. 
The 25-part series on one's way (2012-2013), for example, has been created during different train trips. The pictures show details of seats, windows, doorsteps of compartments or the pattern of the floor – details you only notice through boredom on a long journey. The objects in the photos are easy to identify but Clement works with perspectives and post-production so that moments of reality become geometrically abstract compositions. The use of delicate pastel shades also shows the artist’s sensitivity to colors, as Clement comes from the art of painting and later found her love for photography.
Her new project Heads also uses the iPhone5. The 50- part series gathers 50 heads of mannequins that Clement has photographed in passing on the shelves of fashion stores in several European cities. She then printed the pictures in original size, framed them with almost no free space around the subject and hanged them like a frieze.  It is not immediately clear to the viewer that the heads belong to mannequins: facial features, nor noses, mouths and eyes can be discerned in the series, just as haircuts, fashionable hats or towels. Instead, one can observe long oval forms, close in shape but still different from one another: black and white objects with strong shadows on the one hand, and complicated mirror reflections and a tangle of mysterious points of light on the other. Some images are almost two-colored - orange and blue or red and black, with other complex curves of blue, red and brown tones. From time to time lines of seams or joints are visible, dividing the forms even more. Some are more tapered and pointy than others. The surfaces vary depending on the material of the dolls, from quite smooth, to slightly uneven, to rough. Cracks and scratches add a number of additional nuances. Since modernism, mannequins fascinated photographers such as Umbo, Karl Schenker and Werner Rohde as well as artists of surrealism and new objectivity. Mostly they were concerned with the vitalization of dead mass products, the fetishization of objects true and false desire, the blurring of the boundaries between ideal and natural beauty.
In comparison, the photos by Clement mannequins do not exhibit these aspects of the uncanny and disturbing: In order to be as versatile as possible in the global markets, today's mannequins cannot be assigned to a specific image of women anymore. As can be seen in the succession of Heads, the heads of the figures are sexless and so stylized that they are generally neutral ciphers for the human head. 
The former power of seduction of female art turns to the be at times cool, exuberant aesthetics of pictorial abstraction. But the emphasis on pure artistic beauty proves to be tricky. For indeed it is possible that the abolition of human traits seen as evil bitter comment on the absolutizing of the economy in politics and business. 
The image of man is vanishing from Clement’s photos exactly as it is also disappearing from the bare figures on balance sheets of a sales and profit oriented  social order.
In an interview, Florian Ebner, Head of the Photographic Collection of the Folkwang Museum in Essen and this year's curator of the German Pavilion at the Venice Biennale, recently summarized the main themes of photography in recent decades.
While in the 1980s the discussion about the panel painting dominated the photographic discourse, today it is about the circulation of the images or photos themselves. 
Against this background, the series Heads and also on one's way could be understood as a confrontation with art, in this case not with the strategies of history paintings - narration and overpowering - to which Clement’s teacher Andreas Gursky takes, but with the still life. 
The coloristic contrasts and shape in her work accents this. Although the use of today's digital techniques as defined by Ebner, could be understood as a confrontation with the ubiquity of the photographic. Moreover, Clement can be associated with a further photographic tradition that Ebner has not mentioned in the conversation, namely the conceptual art of the 1960s and 1970s that began the inclusion of photography in the history of art. That Louisa Clement appeals to the conceptual art, is especially clear regarding her work in completed series. 
For the artists who discovered photography at the beginning of the 1960s had untapped opportunities in the medium or, as Jan Dibbets said in retrospect: "In those days photography was regarded as a completely useless medium, and if it was used, then only for the documentation of things. " While Dibbets was interested in the perspective characteristics of the photograph, a decade later, Hans-Peter Feldmann was working on the discrepancy of what we know from an image and what we see in it, e.g. when he photographed car radios, while good music was playing. Feldmanns casualness corresponds with Clements approach in which it is not about the outstanding frame, but the complex potential of form and color, which is hidden behind the supposedly laconic excerpts of our reality.


Closely tied to the corporeal and its elimination is the history of political art. In the early nineteenth century, Francisco de Goya showed, in his print series The Disasters of War, the inhuman cruelty with which the bodies of political opponents were tortured, mutilated, and finally done away with. A good century later, in 1937, Pablo Picasso created the best-known antiwar painting of the twentieth century in the monumental Guernica: his direct reaction to the destruction of the old Basque capi
tal by a German air squadron, in the course of which several hundred people were killed. The painting’s continuing validity and timeless resonance in the twenty-first century was apparent in February 2003, when the tapestry copy hanging in the United Nations headquarters in New York was covered up while Colin Powell, US Secretary of State at the time, and Hans Blix, head of the UNMOVIC weapons inspectors, told the international media of their strategies for a possible war against Iraq. It was deemed unfitting that their remarks should be made in front of the antiwar painting, with its shrieking victims, so it—and the victims’ mutilated bodies—were summarily hidden beneath a veil of blue fabric bearing the UN symbol. Thus the bodies of the victims of war were done away with (this time indirectly) for a second time.
Particularly after 1950, against the background of World War II, the Cold War, and other military conflicts worldwide, the spectrum of politically motivated art was constantly expanding, with the killed or wounded victims the focus of most portrayals. Susan Sontag observed that the Vietnam War, “the first to be witnessed day after day by television cam eras, introduced to the home front new tele-intimacy with death and destruction,” while artists, for instance Martha Rosler from the US, created works that used collage techniques to drag the bodies of Vietnam War victims pictorially right into the middle of the undamaged world of Western consumer-citizens.2 „death is a master from Germany“ is a much-quoted thought from Paul Celan’s Todesfuge (Death Fugue). Also as regards poison gas, this is sadly true. Since the start of the twentieth century, German scientists and German businesses have vied with one another in developing this chemical warfare agent. The chemist Fritz Haber was among those on the German side respon sible for poison gas development and for its first use in combat operations. Born in Breslau, Haber joined the staff of the Technische Hochschule Karlsruhe (University of Applied Sciences) in 1894, ultimately becoming professor of physical chemistry and electrochemistry before, in 1911, taking on the directorship of the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut für Physikalische Chemie und Elektrochemie in Berlin. There, after the outbreak of World War I, he began to research chlorine gas. And it was in part the introduction of poison gas that made the rapid development of aerial reconnaissance necessary as a response, for only from the air could the network of trenches containing the bulk of the enemy fighting strength be monitored and the positions of artillery batteries and poison gas projectors located.This last aspect in particular made aerial reconnaissance highly necessary during World War I. The first use of poison gas on Germany’s western front in 1915 highlighted a fundamental change in the strategy of warfare, which, according to Peter Sloterdijk, „“consisted in targeting no longer the body, but the enemy’s environment.” 5 And so the “discover y of the ‘environment’ took place in the trenches of World War I. Soldiers on both sides had rendered themselves so inaccessible to the bullets and explosives intended for them that the problem of atmospheric war could not but become pressing.“ Although the use of poison gas was outlawed throughout the world in 1925 under the Geneva Protocol, many nations have not been deterred from repeatedly making use of this barbarous weapon. And over the decades, German firms made good money from dealing in death. For example, the poison gas Sarin was developed in Germany by I.G. Farben and, just like the mustard gas that Haber had developed, used to kill insects and then, during World War II, also employed as an invisible weapon against humans. In general, most antiwar art is concerned with criticizing actions and objects, or topics, on a theoretical-visual level, that is, with representing a range of disasters and problems in pictorial form and considering them critically in the process. There are only a few artists who in their artworks or installations make use of the objects and materials of war (and hence death) itself. One unusual exception is Louisa Clement’s installation transformationsschnitt (Transformation Section, 2015). For this, which in formal terms looks like a hybrid of Minimal and Land Art, she has used the poison gas Sarin, one of the weapons used in Syria by the dictator Assad against his own people—not the gas actually used in that civil war, but some that was first delivered to Syria and subsequently rendered harmless by the UN. Some 600 tons of chemicals that could be used to make poison gas were confiscated from the Assad regime and then rendered harmless aboard the US special-purpose ship MV Cape Ray. Finally the deadly makeup of the gas was destroyed in special ovens in Germany at over 1,300 degrees centigrade and melted down into glass. These gleaming brown-black chunks of glass that would otherwise have been used in road-building were discovered by Clement and used for her art. For this installation, which is variable in form, she has hitherto used some 8 tons of the material, most of it dispassionately set out in abstract geometric arrangements. The lumps of glass, varying greatly in size and many of them bulky, with jagged, broken edges, are almost innocently spread out before the onlooker. One could take them for precious relics of some exotic culture, because of the material’s unusual look and because the multitude of pieces lie in no particular conjunction with one another, and so give no clue to the possible purpose of the original solid mass. It is fundamentally a very aesthetic presentation—provided that knowledge of the once deadly gases incorporated, like radioactive waste, into molten glass does not resurrect memories of the wealth of horrid images of the victims forever in the media. The massive physical presence of the lumps of glass makes the strongest possible contrast to the obliterated corpses of those who fell victim to the gas. But alongside such political aspects, what Transformationsschnitt is taking for its theme is also, and above all, the presence and yet simultaneous absence of the physical. This artistic strategy runs through Clement’s work like a scarlet thread, and so it is detectable in fracture (2014), Head (2014–15), and Avatar (2016). “The technology–humanity thematic complex is something I see rather politically; above all I find disembodiment fascinating and suspenseful, and I attack it in my work,” says Clement. Because of its totality, the absence of bodies (literally meaning the non-presence of human individuals), for example in the photographic series on one’s way (2013), is very clearly an important theme in Clement’s work. In the skillful artistic presentation of this absence can be seen one of her work’s great strengths. The apparent contradiction between presence and absence is also evident at another level in photographs of objects derived from warfare, or at any rate the use of force, as, for instance, in the series Weapon (2017).
Among these are photographs of weapon cases that in their cropped sectionality appear almost abstract; because of their close-up non-representationalism, their purpose is almost unfathomable. In contrast to Goya’s drastic portrayals, showing war’s hanged and mutilated victims, today it would be superfluous for art to take up the horror-story documentarism of the press or the Internet-spread flood of atrocity images, or to emu late their stress on savagery. For most people, the real events of war are not imaginable; they are every bit as abstract as Clement’s transformationsschnitt with is poison gas rendered harmless or the representations of weapon cases. And even today, when the news media ply us so frequently with so many images of death and terror, murder and destruction, the suffering of those directly afflicted still remains every bit as unimaginable.
In her work, Clement does not fall for the simple pictorial rhetoric of explicitly representing real facts; she does not work with imagery downloaded from war zones and depictions of the dead and injured. The absence of weapons in the storage modules photographed, along with the absence of the physical contents of the gun cases, nevertheless has a drastic effect, both via the aestheticism of the obscene glossy displays and via the inherent associations of those weapons’ potential uses. Clement’s latest installation takes as its theme physicality and its ambivalent existence between presence and absence. In Schmerzraum (Space of Distress, 2018), she has created a walk-in environment dimensioned 360 cm high, 450 cm long, and 125 cm wide.9 The walls of the room are completely covered with a high-tech fabric, a so-called “e-dermis.” This fabric, which conducts electrical impulses, was developed by Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore to enable wearers of prostheses to experience once again sensations of touch and pain in their missing extremities.
On the one hand, the oblong, corridor-like spatial installation is completely empty; on the other, the person who enters is “surrounded” as though in skin by some twenty-one bodies, assuming that the e-dermis is mimicking human skin.11 Even though the gray material has a very technical feel, it creates an almost oppressive sensation when imagining the fabric “translated” into human skin and corresponding bodies. The “bodies” (i.e., the material) may be touched, which triggers the transmission of a purely hypothetical electrical stimulus. However, this provides no feedback, and it is irrelevant whether or not the entrant knows that their touch is ineffective, because the artist is primarily concerned with the increasing discrepancy between the actions of real bodies (i.e., individuals) in a real world—whatever is meant by that—and the impact of the actions of actual individuals in a digital, and hence virtual, world. Due to the breakneck pace of development of the digital world, fields of action and areas of operation are constantly expanding, and the boundary between illusion and reality is becoming more and more blurred. Where the elimination of the physical aspect of military operations (mentioned above) is con cerned, there is a real-life example in the problem of a “Playstation mentality in the operating personnel”12 controlling combat drones—to some extent “armed conflicts are increasingly turning into a kind of real video game.” Here, real bodies (i.e., real people) are eliminated via (digital) remote control; for the operator, the effects of individual action are thus virtualized and triv ialized —in the starkest contrast to the real effects on real people being killed or injured.
In tackling human interaction and social functioning in an increasingly digital world, Clement’s work is addressing a topic as up-to-date as it is important. On the one hand, we live and communicate more and more digitally, ergo incorporeally, and many times a day we can or must legitimize ourselves by means of codes and passwords; on the other, the human body is increasingly being observed and measured. However, the more we act digitally, the more important individual-physical evaluation becomes. So, for example, it is now almost impossible to travel without the validation of biometric data, since biometrics decide identity. “Those who cannot ‘identify’ themselves by means of their biometric attributes are stigmatized and effectively expatriated,” as a recent report on an Indian registration communication, we are or will become increasingly dependent on the body and its integrity. In order to evaluate identity-confirming data, more and more parts of the body or biometric characteristics are called upon: rang ing from simple fingerprints to irises, facial recognition to DNA and even voice. However, the more verification strategies by means of biometric data are developed, the more opportunities for manipulating this data multiply (catchphrase: deepfakes). So, for example, it is no problem to (almost) authentically reproduce an individual human voice.
Another of Clement’s series has sprung from this preoccupation with biometric data and also makes play with the strategy of a certain decorporealization and with the presence/absence paradox: heads (2014 –15). The starting point was the failed attempt to create a biometrically correct passport photo “Then there arose questions like ‘When do I fit the standardization that this kind of photo demands, and when don’t I?,’ ‘What does that sort of fitting actually mean?,’ and ‘What has that got to do with society?’”17 In the course of this clash of meanings, Clement noticed the faceless mannequin heads, which she ultimately “portrayed” with the smartphone camera; she subsequently framed each individual head in the resulting fifty-part series as tightly as possible. One could read these heads as a contemporary reinterpretation of Gerhard Richter’s “photorealistically” paint ed 48 Portraits (1971–72) of important figures of the twentieth century.18 Whereas Richter has portrayed only men, Clement provides beings stripped of identity, bereft of any biometric traits, that could even begin to be used to establish what sort of “personalities” these are. The mannequin heads, with their avatar-like quality and absence meaning presence stand for a social development that at least partly eliminates physical appearance as the most immanent metaphor for what is human. State
or official institutions do still call upon the human body to establish and mon itor identity whenever possible, but that will not halt the trend toward disembodiment. “Where will our society be going when we are completely digital?” In a series like heads, this is the question that Louisa Clement asks of us as viewers.19 With a new virtual reality work underway, she will go on delving into the thematic complex of the physical and the artistic. We are all agog!
