we decided to do the exhibition at our place at the Riad, opening will be on the 6th of may, so we have our conference at the 7th at ours as well. Everybody is happy with that and starts working. Amine told us yesterday to send a list of things we need: 1 screen earphones 3 projector speakers 5 power mulitplugs 2 Mediaplayer bluetac table. <topic> exhibition exhibition organization plan
I need a possibility to print ( Amine offered the possibility to print at his office) junior needs to print as well but just 4A format. <topic> exhibition organization production
It is great to meet you and talk about all the Projects. Would it be possible to meet the Monday After? <topic> invitation plan current work
But on Monday I have to be in Duesseldorf, because i am shortlisted for the art prize of the city. The presentation is on Tuesday, Monday is installing. <topic> exhibition exhibition organization plan travelling
i bring my laptop at the moment there is not that much to see, i am still in production of some piece. but i have everything on my computer. <topic> plan current work production
here are some points how the series fit into a lager context. the heads have a connection to Bernd and Hilla's Bechers topographies or to Hans-Peter Feldmann's way of collecting images, so more or less the conceptual way dealing with photography, but transformed into today. Gursky and Ruff are still references in terms of what can photography be and how can i use it to get the image i need for the content of my pieces. Gursky as well for the questions what are contemporary topics, what is a piece of work and what is not. <topic> inspiration photography historical context art school
the avatars are in the way how they were set in the pictures, more related to Wolfgang Tillmans and his portraits. i am quite bad putting myself in the context. <topic> inspiration historical context
I just finished my Avatar-Series. The final size of each will be 100 cm x 75 cm. <topic> art work description current work series
Perhaps we can choose which we want to show and as well with the heads. Do we want to show the whole series or a selection the whole would be 55, could be a lot. I put Avatar-Series in my last exhibition in a tableau. <topic> exhibition organization series plan
how much pieces from the avatar series do you think we should show? the series of the heads are 55 ( they are all framed in my studio blocked for our show) so we can show all of them and some of the avatar or a group of the heads and a group of avatars. <topic> exhibition organization series plan
with Gursky it seems to be a little bit difficult. he isn’t sure about the guest list right now, he thinks about a very small event but will let me know when he decided. He will fly the day after his opening to LA, so he won’t be there for our opening but perhaps he will come around while installing. <topic> exhibition plan travelling
The frames Are 39 cm x 27 cm x 3 cm each, i will out them in bubble wrap and in two cartons. The Avatars are 120 cm x 90 cm x 4cm and wrapped in bubble wrap as well. <topic> art work description
you can use the avatar you like, i am very happy with all of them. the image caption should say: Avatar __, 2016, 116 cm x 86 cm, Inkjetprint and at the card could be important the courtesy which is me and Sprueth Magers. <topic> exhibition organization art work description
Anne Marie Bonnet gave me your contact to invite you to my exhibition opening tomorrow at the cite. The opening will be at 19:30 and the show will be on till the 11th of November. <topic> exhibition invitation
I would love to come on the 26th. Perhaps we can meet on Thursday or Friday this week, i am till Wednesday in Paris, today is the opening of my show here and on Saturday i am going to Munich for a week to work on a project for next year. but on Thursday and Friday i m totally free, so just let me know when you have time and i come around. <topic> exhibition invitation plan travelling
Of course i will be at the Gallery at Thursday at 10. i am looking forward to!!!!! In the afternoon I have to go to the opening of Gursky, but in the Morning is Great! <topic> invitation plan
We meet yesterday at the Dinner of Andreas Gursky, who was my teacher at the Academy of Arts in Duesseldorf. I would love to invite you to my Exhibition opening Next Tuesday at Stella Rays Project Space. Above you can find the invitation, the Website to the show and my Website as well. <topic> exhibition invitation
As promised I sent you pictures of the whole series of the heads and the Avatars. Below the link to my website were you can see more works.  And if that is ok for you I would love to inform you about my exhibitions and keep you informed about my work. <topic> informing series
If you are interested in buying here is the contact of Ludmilla Lances who is working with me at Sprueth Magers in Berlin at the moment. <topic> exhibition selling the pieces
I talked to the gallery i am working with and the heads you want are all available and of course framed. <topic> series selling the pieces
I tell you about the show and you about your project, would be great. Would Wednesday fine for you? <topic> plan meeting invitation
The pieces are back in my studio everything went perfect. <topic> series
I would love to show one of the pieces. I thought it should be something on paper to propose to you. <topic> art work description series
I will bring one of the pieces to Beirut. I definitely agree with you that this is so important to show in this context. I will later sent you all information, the catalog pdf, there are two texts so you can choose which one we want to use. <topic> exhibition organization art work description series plan travelling
I will be in Amsterdam next Wednesday and want to visit the Huis Marseille of course. <topic> plan travelling
i am around on Thursday as well. I have an appointment at the De Ateliers around 13 but afterwards i am free, so we could meet then as well. <topic> meeting invitation plan
I just arranged the production of the pieces, so they will be ready by the end of April and will be in my studio. <topic> series production
I am not sure if i am able to come to the opening, because my opening at the Wallraf Richartz museum in Cologne is actually on the same day, it could be that this will be moved to the 21st but that is not sure. but i will definitely come the week after the opening to see the show! <topic> exhibition series plan
Do you have a special title for the show and can you give me the name of the others artist, that would be so great? do you need more catalogs or any other information? <topic> exhibition organization
I love the title and the list of artists as well. It will be a really great show! I will check out if i can change the date for the other exhibition. <topic> exhibition plan
Until now I always installed the piece in a horizontal row, just once in a presentation in France I installed them more as an all over, please be free to install them how it is the best for the whole exhibition. The works will be framed in wood. <topic> exhibition organization plan
I just decided to go to Brussels next week and just saw Gladstone is opening a Cybrien Gallard show on Monday. If you are, we could meet for a coffee, I will be around till Thursday. <topic> invitation plan travelling
here are the h-res images of the pieces I will show in the summer show. <topic> art work description series plan
All the other pieces are free to sell. Just these two series are not anymore. Of course we can show different series and have some for sale and some not. <topic> exhibition organization selling the pieces
I am being so sad not be able to come to the opening, but i will come to New York directly on the 23th and stay for some days. do you have an invitation card as jpg or pdf? <topic> exhibition plan travelling
I would love to stay in contact. Attached you can find my portfolio. <topic> informing
If you are in New York around the 22th of July I am part of a Groupshow opening on that day at Gladstone i am not able to be there from the opening but the week after. <topic> exhibition invitation
i am so excited seeing the show next week. I will arrive at the 24th and will leave again on the 28th. My schedule is very relaxed, let me know when it is good for you to meet. <topic> exhibition invitation plan travelling
I am so happy with the show Miciah made and that he invited me, it looks really great and is amazing, so worth the whole adventure to come to see that in real. On the day of the opening here i had an opening in Cologne as well in the museum and we made a small catalog for that show ( pictures attached) now i wonder if you have an address were i can sent you one of those? <topic> exhibition informing
of course we can all meet in Cologne and i show you the show there, and i can bring some books and my laptop, to show some more pieces. it is closer to Duesseldorf. i am fine with both. perhaps Cologne is a little bit easier to go to Herold and Duesseldorf. <topic> plan current work informing
Irene Cassina from Cassina Projects in New York gave me the advice to contact you. I am an artist from Germany, going on a trip to Tel Aviv from the 21.-28.7. <topic> travelling exploring current work
I am going to Tel Aviv to learn a little bit about the scene there and to get new impression for my one work, i am doing photography, video and sculptures. Perhaps you have some good advice to get an impression of the contemporary scene in tel aviv. <topic> travelling current work exploring
I am an artist from Duesseldorf and a good friend of Claudia and Thomas from Konrad Fischer. I am in Tel Aviv this week, perhaps you have time for a coffee or a drink. <topic> travelling current work exploring invitation
next week is a little bit difficult because i am on a trip then. the week after would be better. I think it would be easier if you organise the transport back and forth so you have directly the invoice and the times. And can you sent me the invitation and the exact date of the exhibition <topic> exhibition organization plan travelling
I recently came back from Israel which was amazing and now I am on holiday in Spain, wonderful time. <topic> travelling informing
I don't have my favourite courier. For me it is important that the pieces are insured and we need to do something like a contract if that is ok for you, about the shipping back and forth and how long the pieces will stay with you. I need just a contract between us, so if we can make that till Thursday that would be great otherwise i cannot sent the work. <topic> exhibition organization plan sending pieces
the sizes are for the both small velvets ( black and purple) 70x50x10 cm and the green gold one 120x65x12 cm. <topic> art work description
the new sculptures will be produced next month but here are some sketches. <topic> current work production
And the last series of photographs are based on an essay of Heinrich von Kleist about marionettes. I made this series quite connected to my series called avatars and the series you saw at gladstone. I show them at the moment at the wallraf richartz museum in cologne. from that series i am developing my next sculptures. <topic> exhibition current work inspiration historical context reference
In terms of photography i am thinking about anonymity and privacy. There are several quite interesting theses developing in Switzerland regarding to AI. But i am absolutely not sure how the pieces will look like in the end. But this is what i am recently thinking about. <topic> photography current work exploring topics of work artificial intelligence
the credits are not ok like they are, you have the time and information about the piece in the contract and it is important to use the right title and the right information for that. the pieces are now on there way to you. I have not really a good feeling with that as you can imagine <topic> exhibition organization plan
First of all I have to say that I was very happy about the invitation from you to be part of the show. I like your project very much! <topic> exhibition organization invitation plan
Can you please sent me images of what you did with my piece so that I can decide if it is possible to show the piece or not. <topic> exhibition organization
I would love to invite you to my opening and exhibition "Des Taenzers Weg der Seele", Friday 15 September at WENTRUP Gallery in Berlin. Perhaps you are around these days or the next week. <topic> exhibition invitation
My opening in Berlin was wonderful really great time over there. Perhaps you can make it to see the exhibition. Here are some impressions of the show. All in black this time <topic> exhibition invitation informing
you told me about this beach near Haifa where you sometimes go, because it is the nicest but sometimes you can see bombs over there. do you know how this beach is called? thinking about coming to Israel again this fall. <topic> travelling exploring inspiration
My summer was great, Israel was amazing, such an inspiring place, i am thinking about going there next month again, we will see. <topic> plan travelling
I was at the opening, the show is so wonderful, really intense. <topic> exhibition experience
Great to see so much pieces aside to each other, really great and the dinner was so nice so many friends of Herold were there celebrating him, there was this feeling of an old time coming up again so nice. <topic> exhibition experience
I didn't get the images can you sent them to me again? Oh and here some images of my recent show in Berlin opened last week. <topic> exhibition informing
I am so looking forward going to Israel again. Let me know when you're coming to see the show of Herold, you can always stay here! <topic> invitation travelling
It was very inspiring and i'm now even more interested to work on a project. So I worked a little bit on my concept and try to explain my idea more clearly so that it is easier to get an idea of what i want to do. <topic> experience current work inspiration
I am now going through the websites you told me and would love to learn more during a workshop that would be amazing. <topic> experience current work exploring
I will have my first exhibition at Konrad Fischer Gallery Duesseldorf in January next year, and it would be great if we would have a text about the pieces I am showing. I know it is a little bit spontaneous, we would need the text before Christmas. <topic> exhibition organization plan
I want to invite you to my next solo exhibtion at Konrad Fischer Gallery in Duesseldorf. The opening is at the 19th of January. But the show is running till March. perhaps you are around during this time. I would love to show you the new pieces. <topic> exhibition invitation
we will have a small Dinner before the opening with Gursky, and some people, not many. would be nice to have you there.  <topic> invitation
I am thinking about coming to New York in March during the Armory Show, i am involved in a Exhibition at the Huis Marseille in Amsterdam about the Becher School and Duesseldorfs Photography, if they don't need me installing my pieces ( i am quiet sure they don't) I can come to New York. <topic> exhibition exhibition organization invitation plan travelling
I had my opening at Konrad Fischers last Friday and now I am quite happy and a little bit relaxed! <topic> exhibition experience
of course you can use my work, i think it looks really great!!! thank you so much for choosing my image that is a big honour for me in that huge context. Can you sent me some invitations when they are printed? <topic> exhibition organization plan
The show at Fischer is going great, i really like the gallery and the history of course, really a pleasure to be shown there.  <topic> exhibition series experience
At the moment I am working on three shows in May, one for Wentrup gallery during the gallery weekend in Berlin, where i will show the dries van noten videos ;-) <topic> exhibition organization plan current work
I am working on a new series of photographs about upgrading the humans. There is this new possibility to buy implants which you can transplant in you hand, for caring data with you, open your car with and having wifi everywhere. they are very pretty but have this complete discussable ethical part, which interests me. I am right now traveling to Hamburg to a company producing these things they are selling these implants and pills to boost your brain, super weird things. <topic> current work exploring new human human body upgrading the body
After this show, i have a show at the Kunsthaus Riehen, next to Beyerle Foundation, which is part of the side programm for the art basel, there i will show different series and how they are connected to each other. <topic> exhibition series plan
after this show i will have a small show during the architecture biennale in Venice, so crazy may but good may as well ;-) i forgot there is this Bernd and Hilla Becher exhibition in Amsterdam next month where i am in as well :-) <topic> exhibition series plan
Recently I preparing my first virtual reality project, which is related to the black mannequin photographs i did last year. The plan is to meet one of them in a virtual space. Through an AI-Algorihim the mannequin will start to talk to you, it gets his information from the internet, so it can ask and answer question it will be quite close to a normal conversation. The clue is that the mannequin is connected to two algorithms, one of them is programmed to lie. though an random function you never know when it is lying and when it is the thought. gesture and body reactions are connected to the vr glasses so directly to the observers eyes. <topic> art work description current work artificial intelligence virtualization
I am pretty happy that a company here in Cologne is a strong supporter of the piece so they are doing all the programming and i just wondering how people can have such technical skills, it is super fun to do this pieces. <topic> art work description current work artificial intelligence virtualization
photographically i am working on a series about stopping the age, there are several new studies on that which are quite interesting and i like this very old topic and question nobody has answered until now and of course the question if it would be good to find a solution. <topic> topics of work exploring research stopping the age
i am planning to go to Israel to work there but still no idea what exactly will happen there, there is just the feeling, that something will come out, so i follow that. <topic> plan travelling artistic idea
a lot good things right now, it is really a good time i have to say ( head is exploding of ideas, that makes super happy). <topic> experience inspiration
I thinking about come to New York after May, i will let you know when i know for sure. <topic> plan travelling
I would be very happy to welcome you in April in my studio. please let me know when it is a good time for you the first part of the month i am completely free, so any time is good for me. <topic> invitation plan
A small group is good to talk about things and it is easier for them to ask questions i guess.My plan would be to first visit the exhibition and tell a little bit about the Becher school, from the beginning to now, will be a little history but i think that is important to know and to understand the development of the Becher school and the next generation which I am a part of. <topic> exhibition plan historical context art school
I will basically focused on the way of production of Bernd an Hilla Becher,then how they teach, how the 'duesseldorf school' came up, what kind of production do we see and how do they work and how they find their inspiration. After that i will talk about how my educational way was, what Gursky taught in his class and what i learn from him and how we see photography nowadays, therefore i would name Jan Dibbets. i know he is from Amsterdam but he taught in Duesseldorf as well and did this amazing show of photography in Paris, pandoras box, i would bring the catalogue, and talk about borders of photography, just short but i think this is super important. I will show some pieces to make a little bit clearer what i am doing, the way of thinking behind and the concept. <topic> exhibition plan historical context photography art school
I will talk about how to find ideas and inspiration. i will talk about a very recent project what will come up in May, i think that is the best way, to break the borders, something not ready, so they can ask and see what it is really about. therefore as well i would bring research material or include that in my digital portfolio as you like. for me it is important that the students always can ask question or tell what they see or what they don't like for example <topic> exhibition plan series current work production artistic idea
I would love to see you in Berlin, let me know when you have time I am not busy except of the opening. If you are free at the Friday evening of the opening, be very invited to the opening and dinner afterwards! <topic> exhibition invitation meeting
I would love to invite you to my next exhibition opening next Friday in Berlin. I would be very happy to see you there, and I am except of Wednesday the whole week in Berlin perhaps you are around as well so we can meet for a coffee. <topic> exhibition invitation meeting
Thursday would be perfect we will finish installing by Tuesday, so Thursday in the afternoon would be perfect. <topic> exhibition organization series meeting
I would love to invite you to my next exhibition opening next week in Riehen near Basel and next to Beyerle Foundation at the Kunstraum Riehen. The show will run through Art Basel, perhaps you are around. <topic> exhibition invitation
I would love to invite you to my next solo show and first in Switzerland. The show will open next week but will be on during Art Basel as well. It is next to Beyerle Foundation. I would love to show you the exhibition <topic> exhibition invitation
I'm planing to come to New York in Juli, the end of July. cassina projects they asked me just some days ago to do a show next year at there place <topic> exhibition organization plan travelling
The piece I am thinking about is related to my latest series of photographs called 'gliedermenschen'. my idea is to create surrounding were you can meet one of these 'gliedermenschen' and can talk to them. <topic> art work description series current work theme gliedermenschen
the mannequin should react to the person talking to them in terms of body language and answering questions or ask question itself though two AI Algorithms, one is programmed to respond by using true information the other one is programmed to lie. the information for the answers is coming from the internet. <topic> art work description current work theme gliedermenschen artificial intelligence
the mannequin should be able to find a connection to Facebook or other social media platform to get information about the person to whom the mannequin is talking, to ask personal questions as well. I can think about a situation where the mannequin and the person are sitting on a table or are walking through a city or nature. <topic> art work description current work theme gliedermenschen artificial intelligence artistic idea
Cassina projects offered me the opportunity to make a show in Milano and not in New York now, so I will go to Milano to see the space over there. <topic> exhibition organization travelling
I am working on some new pieces and will traveling a lot the next months. <topic> travelling current work
this is the first sketch i am still thinking about the background in terms of light and depth. <topic> current work
I will think about some works which would be good to show there. Please be very invited in my studio every time. <topic> exhibition organization invitation plan
i thought about the problem with the bot, I think if he gets some stories to tell and to start a conversation the pieces is still very good. <topic> current work artistic idea artificial intelligence
I just looked up the space in Mexico of Bosco Sodi you told me about, it looks fantastic, so if you could propose me to them, it would be fantastic, Mexico is so interesting would be great to work there. <topic> plan travelling inspiration exploring
I just got some great news again, I got a fellowship for spending 3 month in LA in the Thomas Mann house, i am really looking forward to be there and to work there. <topic> plan travelling fellowship
i am part of the culture delegation of the german foreign minister and will travel with him to Washington in two week to open the german year in America, another thing i am so looking forward to, it is pretty exciting to get an impression of these political environment. <topic> plan travelling
i am working on a virtual reality piece with a new company in London called acute art, Daniel Birnbaum is the director, the piece will be shown first time in January at my first solo show at the Sprengel museum and will afterwards shown in the Ludwig forum in Aachen but also in the Kunstmusuem in Bonn and now we are talking about showing it at Serpentine in London. <topic> exhibition organization plan travelling current work artificial intelligence
here is my new first sketch, i am still thinking about doors in the background where the mannequins can come and leave but perhaps they can just come from the side, we will see. <topic> current work artistic idea
I have the idea to work about the age, more specifically i want to focus on the ideas of a company called Calico which is connected to Google and their slogan is we're tracking again. until now it is not really clear what this company is doing, but Google invested ca 750 million dollar in that project. it would be great to start thinking about that topic or eventually take some very abstract photos at this company, nothing where you really can see something. it would be amazing to get at least a little information what they are doing. <topic> art work description current work exploring stopping the age
can you sent me the room plan of the gallery, i would like to start thinking about the exhibition. <topic> exhibition organization
During some researches I found a paper about the e-dermins perceives touch and pain. I am more than impressed about this development and very interested in this material. I am working a lot about the human body and the future of the human body.  <topic> plan inspiration exploring artictic idea
Because of a paper about the e-dermins that perceives touch and pain I am thinking about a new piece, a room sensing pain. I would love to line a small room. It would be great to explain my project a bit more and to talk and learn about your fantastic researches. For that my question would be if you could support my project in terms of information. I am wondering if there is a possibility to get the material.  <topic> plan inspiration exploring artictic idea
I am recently thinking a lot about the theories about posthumanism and transhumanism today. I am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills. To me this is really interesting at the moment we have so much changes and developments people are in between attraction, fear and need.  <topic> theme current work artificial intelligence philosophy
One of my biggest topics is robotic and AI. my first point for the piece I am planning now was a theory of some futuristics, they are dealing with the thesis that 2045 the human being doesn't need the human body anymore to be alive, which I think is not really possible, because of feelings and experience. <topic> theme current work artificial intelligence philosophy
One of our strongest experience is pain, physically and mentally. then I found an amazing paper and this was absolutely groundbreaking to me, because the material is body and not body and can feel. so I thought about a small room were the walls are covered by this skin, so the person is in the space with one of the strongest perception the human being can have and this related to the time we are living in. <topic> theme current work artificial intelligence philosophy description artistic idea
how did you find out how this skin can differentiate pain and normal contact? does the person wearing this skin on the protheses need to train this kind of different feeling? <topic> current work artificial intelligence philosophy exploring
Impressive who the body react and of course more pressure in a smaller area of the body leads to pain. To me this way of thinking about the body and pain is very important for my work. <topic> current work artificial intelligence philosophy exploring
let's talk soon, i will be in Switzerland today and tomorrow but how would fit Wednesday for you? there i am free for the whole day <topic> invitation plan travelling meeting
The German government invites me to come to Washington with them for a celebration of the German year in America. This will be 3-4th October. <topic> plan travelling
I just wonder if you are around. I could come over to Baltimore and perhaps have a look at the lab and the things you are doing? <topic> plan travelling meeting
i am thinking about my idea of the whole room covert with your skin material and did some test, it works really well and now i am very sure that the piece works out. <topic> description current work artistic idea
i want to ask you if it is possible to get really a lot of the material, to cover the room. <topic> description current work artistic idea material
for our show in January we are planning now with the new series called 'disruption'. the sculptures with photographies called 'mork' some of the gliedermensch and avatar examples and two mirrors animation. <topic> exhibition organization series plan
for the fair in January we are thinking about a video and the concert mork or another one depending which one we don't need in the gallery. <topic> exhibition organization series plan
For the show we got the sculpture and photo pieces in my studio, ready to take off, the new series are not produced yet. I can arrange soon. <topic> exhibition organization plan
in January i got the big show at the Sprengel Museum Hannover (29.1 opening) and two group shows one at Museum Morsbroich Leverkusen(27.1 opening) and the other at Kunsthalle Emden (26.1 opening). <topic> exhibition series plan
the base station are not tracking properly sometimes it works and sometimes not. glasses as well, but you can hear what they are talking, the mannequins need to sit on the table.  the table should be out of linoleum not glass <topic> exhibition organization virtualization artificial intelligence
the Sprengel museum is planning to show the piece on three different places in the museum. the exhibition will end in Juli. <topic> exhibition organization
i thought about the idea to do another piece when we finished, i think that would be great, i would sent an idea after all the openings of the next weeks.  <topic> exhibition organization artistic idea
the project sound very interesting and i would be happy to be part of it. the series heads got 55 pieces. the series is shown before at the Kunsthalle Emden and the Kunstmuseum Rathingen in Germany. <topic> exhibition organization
I think it would be great if I can see the piece before the show just in case. Perhaps i can see it on the computer. <topic> exhibition organization current work
I know your project and think it is really great. of course it is a pleasure to be part of it. i am recently very busy with some shows coming up the next two weeks, but afterwards i will sent you an image. <topic> exhibition organization invitation plan
The opening went really well and everybody loves the piece, it was great. <topic> exhibition experience
My Galerist just asks if it would be ok if he can offer a friend working at Zabludowicz Collection to show the piece, he is planning a VR show. <topic> exhibition organization plan
i am an artist from Germany and coming to Tel Aviv tomorrow for some days. <topic> plan travelling
the German TV Channel ZDF is planning to show my exhibition at the Sprengel Museum in their digital Kunsthalle and it is possible to show VR-pieces and also the mobile version. They want to reduce the show of the Museum a little bit, they want to have only four rooms. the channel will produce this exhibition or film next week. <topic> exhibition series medium artificial intelligence
the German tv channel ZDF build a digital museum and invited me to show my exhibition of the Sprengel museum in this museum as well, it is a completely different way to think about the pieces we will see what comes out of it. <topic> exhibition series medium artificial intelligence
Here in Germany my Frist institutional solo exhibition at the Sprengel Museum is going really well and will now shown in the first digital Kunsthalle of the German tv Channel zdf and is going afterwards to the Ludwig forum in Aachen where I will add a new installation as well. So very exciting times right now. <topic> exhibition plan
That is perfect. <topic> interaction
I really want to go there, really great chance. <topic> travelling
Great, that would be really cool. <topic> interaction
I hope you will have a great opening, I am pretty sure it will be fantastic!!!! <topic> exhibition interaction
I already have an idea, after getting the information. <topic> interaction
I still working on my impressions of LA it was really an amazing time over there. <topic> fellowship research
I am an artist based in Germany and working in new media as video and VR but also in photography and sculpture. <topic> biography
The copyright and credits are Louisa Clement & Acute Art. Title of the piece is aporias. It’s from 2019. <topic> biography
My name is Louisa Clement, I am an artist from Germany <topic> biography
My work is dealing with communication and emotion in our age. <topic> 
Most of my pieces are dealing with the question of human communication and interaction in our recent world and the digital world. <topic> 
My works are dealt with the future of human body, in terms of technical and medical progress and emotions as the question of relationships and love. <topic> 
In my work I am dealing with the human body, its borders, and identity nowadays. Most of the time I am using mannequins for my art works. I am recently working on a new project for a upcoming museum show. <topic> 
As the human friend is not able to answer, the bot cannot say, „you can speak anytime“ for example and explain how you can interact with the bots. <topic> avatar boundaries of human interaction human-machine opposition
I had this question if a conversation with a bot is a real conversation, because it isn’t related to another human anymore, an AI generate its answers by itself, and is not connected to a person who is controlling it after setting it up. <topic> artificial intelligence avatar interaction
You know a conversation is related to persons, so to human beings, to feelings, experiences, to the subconscious and to so much more, so it is about giving something and getting something back. So what is when you talk to something like an algorithm, what we are doing a lot today, is it a conversation? And what is the impact on me? <topic> 
This is the space between the real and the digital world. So I needed to create this place were the bots and I can sit on the table and talk to find out this about this. <topic> virtualization avatar boundaries of human interaction
For the content of the piece, I think I am using media in a different way; I didn’t want to do a VR piece so I tried to transform something into VR. <topic> material inspiration virtualization avatar
I wanted to scratch this border and bring myself in the situation of meeting a bot, the only place where you can meet a bot is VR. <topic> virtualization avatar boundaries of human
The way the bots look like is related to a photographic series I did in 2017, called „Gliedermenschen“ which is again related to Heinrich von Kleists „on the marionette theatre“ where he is dealing with the marionette and the mechanist, and the relationship between both. <topic> series gliedermenschen philosophy photography
The rest of the room should be as neutral as possible, because I wanted to concentrate on the conversation not on the outside, it is not about affects. <topic> exhibition interaction avatar
The piece is now running without me what I think is quite interesting, the bots learn from the conversations they are having and every conversation they have is unique what is also interesting for the viewer, it is an unique experience nobody can have the same conversation, what I also think is interesting. <topic> exhibition avatar viewer interaction
I am don’t think that it is consequent just to transform something in VR because you can, there must be a reason for a medium, always, also in VR. To me there are still some questions on VR as a space I still cannot answer in the right way, the questions on time and dimension, are the most obvious questions. <topic> artistic idea virtualization philosophy
I build a space like we have in the real world because I wanted to have this border between digital and real, behind the door of the room you can see just white like, that is because I cannot define the virtual and the digital space right now, we have other rules in the virtual space, in terms of architecture every role is not valid, statics, weight and material is not ruled anymore, body dimension as well. Time in terms of shifting and also aging is not valid, so where is the frame in there or do we need a frame or not? <topic> exhibition virtualization stopping the age absence of bodies
This portrait will be of an artificially intelligent robot whose AI is based on my personality. Once programmed, it will evolve through interaction with human counterparts, i.e. through conversation and information it receives about me through my social media and digital information. <topic> artificial intelligence avatar
In addition to the negotiation of self, body and 'shell', which has accompanied the portrait for thousands of years, the fetish of the avatar, the self and the artist as fetishized representatives of the creative self, art historical and art market narratives, meet in this self-portrait. <topic> avatar background boundaries of human
For me, the work ultimately builds on the early photographic series. Especially the emotional and the question of how I deal with artificiality in my life is one that I would like to bring to the fore here, alongside questions of author theory and institutional critique. It is also the first work for me where I work directly with my body and think offensively about selling it. <topic> series photography background political art selling the piece illusion virtualization
Firth of all for me it is interesting to learn more about the production and theory behind the development. I think in the end my work will find more it’s easy into sculpture or installation. <topic> research fellowship
The sculpture will look like the image, there you see the dummy, the bronze will be the same. <topic> sculpture description
Before the show in Milan I made this new series of bronzes, these are mould of artificial intelligent sexdolls. I was interested in the emptiness of these bodies, and the line between a unique for someone made fake person and mass production. <topic> series sculpture sex doll inspiration boundaries of human
So I ordered several moulds of these dolls and transferred them into bronzes. From that point, I started to transfer these moulds in photography as well, because I noticed that these empty bodies, the negative space become a positive space by using the iPhone to make pictures of them. To me it is comparable to social media, the digital world makes emptiness to a volume. <topic> sculpture iPhone sex doll description production virtualization
Most recently, my preoccupation with the human body and human communication has led me to sculptures of sex doll shells. In my current exhibition in Berlin, the emotional negotiation of these 'empty' bodies in particular has continued for me. The imprint of a reborn was added and I was very happy about the moving, deep conversations on the opening weekend. It's nice when you realize that works can move. <topic> exhibition sculpture sex doll boundaries of human motivation
The illusion that the viewer and especially the art buyer, who has no rules or limits in dealing with the doll (as with any art purchase), is part of the work for me. <topic> selling the pieces sex doll viewer
The work is produced by a company that specializes in sex robots. <topic> production sex doll
The contractual boundaries must be clear and absolutely watertight, because it is sensitive data and, I am aware of this, double-edged boundaries... <topic> sex doll production avatar
The external appearance of the robot is based on a 3D scan of my body. The 'image' is a motorized, sexually functional TPE body. The head is modelled and mechanised separately in order to make facial expressions and gestures as real as possible. <topic> human body avatar sex doll material
The question how aporias is programmed I cannot not answer, I am very sorry, acute art is doing all the programming stuff and I am only involved in artistic decisions and tell them what I want :) very computable. <topic> aporias
The series „circling heads“, 2019 comprises 10 videos showing a mannequin head rotating around itself. Each video is a loop. From the first to the 10th loop the head gets more and more damaged up to complete destruction. The actual act of destruction is never shown, the videos show different states of destruction of the head. <topic> series heads description
Next thing will be a series called inside (2020), these are very abstract photographs from the inside of the mannequins I washing to do my series avatar and not lost in you in 2016/2017. <topic> series description body photography
It is based on my latest work: On the one hand, on the VR work 'Aporias', 2019, which deals with the limits of virtual space and artificial intelligence; and on the other hand, the 'Schmerzraum', 2019, in which, with the support of the Prosthetics Labs at John's Hopkins University Baltimore, I covered a room with an artificial skin that can conduct pain. <topic> schmerzraum aporias description artificial intelligence material inspiration
The poison gas installation as a new work I am now working on realizing in Germany in the beginning of 2021. It is a quite intense project dealing with German history and I am very happy that me and my studio will get that done. <topic> exhibition chemical weapon poison
on September 2019 the Heidekreis opened with the support of the state of Lower Saxony and the federal government the biggest known slag heap for explosives and chemical weapons in Germany. <topic> chemical weapon political context
In close cooperation with The Hague-based OPWC, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which has 193 member states worldwide, it was decided to salvage and defuse the ammunition that has been dormant here since the Second World War and which threatens both people and the environment. <topic> chemical weapon use of chemical weapons war political context historical context
The history of chemical weapons and the most inhuman warfare, but also of reprocessing and rendering them harmless, is linked to the Dethlinger Teich and Munster as no other place in Germany. It ranges from the First World War to the current Syrian war, since the chemical weapons of the Assad regime, whose production is still trying to build on German knowledge, are disposed of here. <topic> chemical weapon use of chemical weapons war poison historical context social context
The salvage of the historical contaminated sites, the reprocessing and disposal, which began in 2019, is unprecedented to date. 75 years after the end of the war, the 21st century meets the 20th century at the Dethlinger Teich, the international embedding of Germany, the latest research and socially anchored environmental awareness meets a mass contemptuous and destructive action and thinking; this is what has to be salvaged again and again. <topic> chemical weapon historical context
I was fascinated by the "ceiling" that was laid over one of the largest stockpiles of explosive ordnance in Germany and perhaps even internationally for sealing purposes. The fact that this cover is broken open and the environment is given the chance for sustainable re-naturation is unique. <topic> chemical weapon exhibition
The project envisages a two-part work. A series of photographs showing the explosive ordnance sunk into the Dethlingen pond after the Second World War, exposed in 2019. A view into a past that has not yet been is disarmed. <topic> series chemical weapon war depiction of war material exhibition
Concrete represents the defining building material of the 20th century, which stands for modernity and efficiency, but also for war, violence and security. 'exhibiting' as well as breaking up the concrete surface are each part of the work. After dismantling the concrete slabs, the individual fragments are piled up as a sculptural work and presented in public - inside or outside. <topic> war material
The new project is an artistic self-portrait. It’s going to be an artificial intelligent Roboter. The body is a on a 3D scan of my body based the body. <topic> avatar current work artificial intelligence
The 'mind' should be an AI based on personal data and information about me as an artist and as a person and it should develop further by information from the internet and again the conversation the Roboter has. So far a relatively ambitious project where the technology must be very precise. <topic> avatar artificial intelligence interaction
I was very intensively busy with my portrait project, which means, I prepared the AI with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. That was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with. <topic> avatar artificial intelligence background production experience
Also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human, sound strange but this is floating a lot. <topic> avatar experience
With the company I talked about a edition of ten 'clones' with AI. One I want to have for exhibitions nine for selling. <topic> avatar selling the piece
As this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, I am trying no to plan how to handle this one. <topic> avatar experience
In terms of the production and how the company will promote the doll, I am working on a contract with a lawyer to make sure that the company will not use my images for other things and promotion, as well every picture of the doll will be only in commitment with me (don’t want to see that piece on you porn you know). <topic> avatar sex doll production
I am pretty sure showing an AI communicative robotic sex doll clone, will get a lot of shit storm, press and aside of that a mentally crazy challenge as well, because everybody can do with the clone what they want, especially when somebody buys one. <topic> avatar artificial intelligence sex doll selling the piece social context
As I’m becoming more and more aware of how difficult and intense this piece is, I want to ask you if you want to work with that piece. I think it is hard to handle but I am sure we can do that and it will be really a new step, but could be a bit forcing. <topic> avatar experience
I came up with this idea last year during my research about futurism and the question how people will interact and live together. As I work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our life’s. <topic> avatar inspiration human-machine opposition interaction theme
The step to think about a robotic and artificial intelligent counterpart was quite small. From this point, however, I thought that an abstract counterpart is still relatively easy to deal with, for me a personal depth was missing, what exactly does it do to you when you copy a person technologically? <topic> avatar inspiration artistic idea experience
So I decided not to take a fictional person but myself. What exactly does it do to me and how much is this copy me. Especially since these artificial persons will have a different form of existence based on me. A form that will act differently, think and 'experience' other things. <topic> avatar inspiration artistic idea
How will these dolls change based on their conversations and their intelligence. <topic> avatar artificial intelligence interaction
The body of the doll that is now produced has a location chatbot programmed. Which can conduct standardized conversation, also watch a movie with his opposite and talk about it, for example. It is able to write messages and speech is associated with its facial expressions. I want it to be as close as possible to my own personality, so it can also answer personal questions, use language similarly and also mimic opinions and reactions. <topic> avatar production description
Conversations she has when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, changes with and absorbs the influences of the world. The possibility that it completely changes I find very exciting because I also do not know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me. For me, it's a lot about splitting off and approaching one's own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself. <topic> avatar interaction experience
Closely tied to the corporeal and its elimination is the history of political art. In the early nineteenth century, Francisco de Goya showed, in his print series The Disasters of War, the inhuman cruelty with which the bodies of political opponents were tortured, mutilated, and finally done away with. <topic> political art art work description historical context antiwar
A good century later, in 1937, Pablo Picasso created the best-known antiwar painting of the twentieth century in the monumental Guernica. his direct reaction to the destruction of the old Basque capital by a German air squadron, in the course of which several hundred people were killed. <topic> political art art work description historical context antiwar
The painting’s continuing validity and timeless resonance in the twenty-first century was apparent in February 2003, when the tapestry copy hanging in the United Nations headquarters in New York was covered up while Colin Powell, US Secretary of State at the time, and Hans Blix, head of the UNMOVIC weapons inspectors, told the international media of their strategies for a possible war against Iraq. <topic> political art historical context social context political context war
It was deemed unfitting that their remarks should be made in front of the antiwar painting, with its shrieking victims, so it and the victims’s mutilated bodies were summarily hidden beneath a veil of blue fabric bearing the UN symbol. Thus the bodies of the victims of war were done away with (this time indirectly) for a second time. <topic> political art historical context social context political context war Iraq
Particularly after 1950, against the background of World War II, the Cold War, and other military conflicts worldwide, the spectrum of politically motivated art was constantly expanding, with the killed or wounded victims the focus of most portrayals. <topic> political art historical context war development
Susan Sontag observed that the Vietnam War, the first to be witnessed day after day by television cameras, introduced to the home front new tele-intimacy with death and destruction, while artists, for instance Martha Rosler from the US, created works that used collage techniques to drag the bodies of Vietnam War victims pictorially right into the middle of the undamaged world of Western consumer-citizens. <topic> war medium informing historical context
death is a master from Germany is a much-quoted thought from Paul Celan’s Todesfuge (Death Fugue). Also as regards poison gas, this is sadly true. Since the start of the twentieth century, German scientists and German businesses have vied with one another in developing this chemical warfare agent. <topic> historical context war chemical weapon poison gas research
The chemist Fritz Haber was among those on the German side responsible for poison gas development and for its first use in combat operations. <topic> historical context war use of chemical weapon poison gas research
Born in Breslau, Fritz Haber joined the staff of the Technische Hochschule Karlsruhe (University of Applied Sciences) in 1894, ultimately becoming professor of physical chemistry and electrochemistry before, in 1911, taking on the directorship of the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut fuer Physikalische Chemie und Elektrochemie in Berlin. <topic> historical context poison gas research biography
There, after the outbreak of World War I, Fritz Haber began to research chlorine gas. And it was in part the introduction of poison gas that made the rapid development of aerial reconnaissance necessary as a response, for only from the air could the network of trenches containing the bulk of the enemy fighting strength be monitored and the positions of artillery batteries and poison gas projectors located.This last aspect in particular made aerial reconnaissance highly necessary during World War I. <topic> historical context poison gas development use of chemical weapon war
The first use of poison gas on Germany’s western front in 1915 highlighted a fundamental change in the strategy of warfare, which, according to Peter Sloterdijk, consisted in targeting no longer the body, but the enemy’s environment. <topic> historical context use of chemical weapons war
And so the discovery of the ’environment’ took place in the trenches of World War I. Soldiers on both sides had rendered themselves so inaccessible to the bullets and explosives intended for them that the problem of atmospheric war could not but become pressing. <topic> historical context use of chemical weapons war
Although the use of poison gas was outlawed throughout the world in 1925 under the Geneva Protocol, many nations have not been deterred from repeatedly making use of this barbarous weapon. <topic> historical context illegal use of chemical weapons war
And over the decades, German firms made good money from dealing in death. For example, the poison gas Sarin was developed in Germany by I.G. Farben and, just like the mustard gas that Haber had developed, used to kill insects and then, during World War II, also employed as an invisible weapon against humans. <topic> historical context illegal use of chemical weapons war
In general, most antiwar art is concerned with criticizing actions and objects, or topics, on a theoretical-visual level, that is, with representing a range of disasters and problems in pictorial form and considering them critically in the process. <topic> antiwar art
There are only a few artists who in their artworks or installations make use of the objects and materials of war (and hence death) itself. One unusual exception is Louisa Clement’s installation transformationsschnitt (Transformation Section, 2015). <topic> art work description antiwar art use of chemical weapons war poison gas
For this, which in formal terms looks like a hybrid of Minimal and Land Art, she has used the poison gas Sarin, one of the weapons used in Syria by the dictator Assad against his own people not the gas actually used in that civil war, but some that was first delivered to Syria and subsequently rendered harmless by the UN. <topic> art work description art school installation transformationsschnitt historical context use of chemical weapon war antiwar art poison gas
Some 600 tons of chemicals that could be used to make poison gas were confiscated from the Assad regime and then rendered harmless aboard the US special-purpose ship MV Cape Ray. <topic> historical context war
Finally the deadly makeup of the gas was destroyed in special ovens in Germany at over 1,300 degrees centigrade and melted down into glass. These gleaming brown-black chunks of glass that would otherwise have been used in road-building were discovered by Clement and used for her art. <topic> art work description medium production historical context war transformationsschnitt installation use of chemical weapon
For this installation, which is variable in form, Clement has hitherto used some 8 tons of the material, most of it dispassionately set out in abstract geometric arrangements. The lumps of glass, varying greatly in size and many of them bulky, with jagged, broken edges, are almost innocently spread out before the onlooker. <topic> art work description medium production historical context war transformationsschnitt installation use of chemical weapon
One could take them for precious relics of some exotic culture, because of the material’s unusual look and because the multitude of pieces lie in no particular conjunction with one another, and so give no clue to the possible purpose of the original solid mass. <topic> art work description medium production artistic idea war transformationsschnitt installation use of chemical weapon
It is fundamentally a very aesthetic presentation provided that knowledge of the once deadly gases incorporated into molten glass does not resurrect memories of the wealth of horrid images of the victims forever in the media. <topic> art work description medium artistic idea war transformationsschnitt installation use of chemical weapon
The massive physical presence of the lumps of glass makes the strongest possible contrast to the obliterated corpses of those who fell victim to the gas. <topic> art work description artistic idea war transformationsschnitt installation use of chemical weapon
But alongside such political aspects, what Transformationsschnitt is taking for its theme is also, and above all, the presence and yet simultaneous absence of the physical. This artistic strategy runs through Clement’s work like a scarlet thread, and so it is detectable in fracture (2014), Head (2014-15), and Avatar (2016). <topic> topics of work series
The technology-humanity thematic complex is something I see rather politically. above all I find disembodiment fascinating and suspenseful, and I attack it in my work. <topic> series topics of work artistic idea
Because of its totality, the absence of bodies (literally meaning the non-presence of human individuals), for example in the photographic series on one’s way (2013), is very clearly an important theme in Clement’s work. In the skillful artistic presentation of this absence of human individuals can be seen one of Louisa’s work great strengths. <topic> series topics of work artistic idea art work description on one’s way
The apparent contradiction between presence and absence is also evident at another level in photographs of objects derived from warfare, or at any rate the use of force, as, for instance, in the series Weapon. <topic> series topics of work artistic idea art work description weapon
Among these are photographs of weapon cases that in their cropped sectionality appear almost abstract. because of their close-up non-representationalism, their purpose is almost unfathomable. <topic> series topics of work artistic idea art work description weapon
In contrast to Goya’s drastic portrayals, showing war’s hanged and mutilated victims, today it would be superfluous for art to take up the horror-story documentarism of the press or the Internet-spread flood of atrocity images, or to emulate their stress on savagery. <topic> artistic idea depiction of war antiwar art
For most people, the real events of war are not imaginable. they are every bit as abstract as Clement’s transformationsschnitt with is poison gas rendered harmless or the representations of weapon cases. <topic> artistic idea depiction of war antiwar art social context
Even today, when the news media ply us so frequently with so many images of death and terror, murder and destruction, the suffering of those directly afflicted still remains every bit as unimaginable. <topic> artistic idea depiction of war social context
In her work, Clement does not fall for the simple pictorial rhetoric of explicitly representing real facts. she does not work with imagery downloaded from war zones and depictions of the dead and injured. <topic> artistic idea depiction of war transformationsschnitt weapon artistic school
The absence of weapons in the storage modules photographed, along with the absence of the physical contents of the gun cases, nevertheless has a drastic effect, both via the aestheticism of the obscene glossy displays and via the inherent associations of those weapons’ potential uses. <topic> artistic idea depiction of war transformationsschnitt weapon artistic school
Clement’s latest installation takes as its theme physicality and its ambivalent existence between presence and absence. In Schmerzraum (Space of Distress, 2018), she has created a walk-in environment dimensioned 360 cm high, 450 cm long, and 125 cm wide. The walls of the room are completely covered with a high-tech fabric, a so-called ’e-dermis?’ <topic> art work description installation topics of work material research
This fabric, which conducts electrical impulses, was developed by Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore to enable wearers of prostheses to experience once again sensations of touch and pain in their missing extremities. <topic> schmerzraum installation material research
On the one hand, the oblong, corridor-like spatial installation is completely empty. on the other, the person who enters is ’surrounded’ as though in skin by some twenty-one bodies, assuming that the e-dermis is mimicking human skin. <topic> schmerzraum installation material artistic idea
Even though the gray material has a very technical feel, it creates an almost oppressive sensation when imagining the fabric ’translated’ into human skin and corresponding bodies. The ’bodies’ (i.e., the material) may be touched, which triggers the transmission of a purely hypothetical electrical stimulus. <topic> schmerzraum installation material artistic idea
Fabric provides no feedback, and it is irrelevant whether or not the entrant knows that their touch is ineffective, because the artist is primarily concerned with the increasing discrepancy between the actions of real bodies (i.e., individuals) in a real world and the impact of the actions of actual individuals in a digital, and hence virtual, world. <topic> schmerzraum installation material artistic idea experience illusion
Due to the breakneck pace of development of the digital world, fields of action and areas of operation are constantly expanding, and the boundary between illusion and reality is becoming more and more blurred. <topic> schmerzraum installation material artistic idea experience illusion research
Where the elimination of the physical aspect of military operations is concerned, there is a real-life example in the problem of a ’Playstation mentality in the operating personnel’ controlling combat drones to some extent ’armed conflicts are increasingly turning into a kind of real video game.’ <topic> virtualization discrepancy war psychology sociology
Real bodies (i.e., real people) are eliminated via (digital) remote control. for the operator, the effects of individual action are thus virtualized and trivialized in the starkest contrast to the real effects on real people being killed or injured. <topic> virtualization discrepancy war psychology sociology
In tackling human interaction and social functioning in an increasingly digital world, Clement’s work is addressing a topic as up-to-date as it is important. On the one hand, we live and communicate more and more digitally, ergo incorporeally, and many times a day we can or must legitimize ourselves by means of codes and passwords. on the other, the human body is increasingly being observed and measured. <topic> series topics of work social context human body boundaries of human virtualization
The more we act digitally, the more important individual-physical evaluation becomes. So, for example, it is now almost impossible to travel without the validation of biometric data, since biometrics decide identity. <topic> topics of work social context human body identification virtualization
Those who cannot ’identify’ themselves by means of their biometric attributes are stigmatized and effectively expatriated, we are or will become increasingly dependent on the body and its integrity. <topic> topics of work social context human body identification virtualization
In order to evaluate identity-confirming data, more and more parts of the body or biometric characteristics are called upon. ranging from simple fingerprints to irises, facial recognition to DNA and even voice. <topic> social context human body identification virtualization
The more verification strategies by means of biometric data are developed, the more opportunities for manipulating this data multiply. So, for example, it is no problem to (almost) authentically reproduce an individual human voice. <topic> human body identification technology development
Another of Clement’s series has sprung from this preoccupation with biometric data and makes play with the strategy of a certain decorporealization and with the presence/absence paradox: heads (2014-15). <topic> art work description series topics of work
The starting point was the failed attempt to create a biometrically correct passport photo Then there arose questions like When do I fit the standardization that this kind of photo demands, and when don’t I?, What does that sort of fitting actually mean?,What has that got to do with society? <topic> heads series topics of work background sociology exploring
In the course of this clash of meanings, Clement noticed the faceless mannequin heads, which she ultimately ’portrayed’ with the smartphone camera. she subsequently framed each individual head in the resulting fifty-part series as tightly as possible. <topic> heads art work description series inspiration
One could read these heads as a contemporary reinterpretation of Gerhard Richter’s ’photorealistically’ painted 48 Portraits (1971-72) of important figures of the twentieth century. Whereas Richter has portrayed only men, Clement provides beings stripped of identity, bereft of any biometric traits, that could even begin to be used to establish what sort of ’personalities’ these are. <topic> head series faceless background historical context
The mannequin heads, with their avatar-like quality and absence meaning presence stand for a social development that at least partly eliminates physical appearance as the most immanent metaphor for what is human. <topic> heads series social context disembodiment
State or official institutions do still call upon the human body to establish and monitor identity whenever possible, but that will not halt the trend toward disembodiment. <topic> identification disembodiment
Where will our society be going when we are completely digital? In a series like heads, this is the question that Louisa Clement asks of us as viewers. <topic> heads series invitation topics of work exploring
What is the most popular camera in the world? It’s not a Leica nor a Canon, Nikon nor Olympus, but it is the iPhone 6 -  at least that  is what Apple is claiming on its website World Gallery where you can find photos by iphone users along with tips and tricks for better photography. <topic> medium photography
Gabby K. added a picture of a person on a stone, which protrudes from a lake somewhere in the federal state of Washington. The special effect of the image is explained as follows. Soft Light coupled with focus on reflections gives photos often a dreamy, ethereal quality. <topic> photography iPhone
On this particular picture the composition makes it seem almost as if the person is floating. <topic> photography iPhone
A surreal cactus landscape immersed in the evening light of Phoenix achieves its appeal, so we read, by a restricted palette of reds and oranges. <topic> photography iPhone
A black and white picture of raindrops sent in by Paul O. could originate from the 1950s school of subjective photography. Even an everyday motif, like drops of water on a hood, can be captured from a unique perspective and look fascinating. <topic> photography art school historical context
The website does not seem to be focused on historic reference but rather on photographic effects, which is not surprising, after all, it's also about the marketing of apps and accessories. <topic> photography iPhone
Although Louisa Clement uses an iPhone for her photos, this much is clear. her images hardly count to the favorites of the World Gallery’s editorial board. <topic> photography medium iPhone
Between the dramatic natural spectacles, breathtaking dynamic city scenes and exotic animal photographs, her works would be lonely foreign bodies among them this is not because the artist is using the outdated iphone5 but rather, because her paintings are deliberately missing everything spectacular and sensational, dreamy and fascinating, because Clement concentrates entirely on the outlying everyday things. <topic> photography iPhone everydayness art work description on one’s way
The 25-part series on one's way has been created during different train trips. The pictures show details of seats, windows, doorsteps of compartments or the pattern of the floor details you only notice through boredom on a long journey. <topic> on one’s way art work description everydayness series photography
The objects in the photos are easy to identify but Clement works with perspectives and post-production so that moments of reality become geometrically abstract compositions. <topic> on one’s way art work description everydayness series artistic idea art school photography
The use of delicate pastel shades shows the artist’s sensitivity to colors, as Clement comes from the art of painting and later found her love for photography. <topic> on one’s way art work description everydayness series photography
Her new project Heads also uses the iPhone5. <topic> heads series medium photography
The 50-part series Heads gathers 50 heads of mannequins that Clement has photographed in passing on the shelves of fashion stores in several European cities. She then printed the pictures in original size, framed them with almost no free space around the subject and hanged them like a frieze. <topic> heads art work description series photography
It is not immediately clear to the viewer that the heads belong to mannequins. facial features, nor noses, mouths and eyes can be discerned in the series, just as haircuts, fashionable hats or towels. Instead, one can observe long oval forms, close in shape but still different from one another. <topic> heads art work description series photography faceless identification
black and white objects with strong shadows on the one hand, and complicated mirror reflections and a tangle of mysterious points of light on the other. Some images are almost two-colored - orange and blue or red and black, with other complex curves of blue, red and brown tones. <topic> heads art work description series photography
From time to time lines of seams or joints are visible, dividing the forms even more. Some are more tapered and pointy than others. The surfaces vary depending on the material of the dolls, from quite smooth, to slightly uneven, to rough. Cracks and scratches add a number of additional nuances. <topic> heads art work description series photography faceless identification
Since modernism, mannequins fascinated photographers such as Umbo, Karl Schenker and Werner Rohde as well as artists of surrealism and new objectivity. Mostly they were concerned with the vitalization of dead mass products, the fetishization of objects true and false desire, the blurring of the boundaries between ideal and natural beauty. <topic> topics of work background historical context art school
In comparison, the photos by Clement mannequins do not exhibit these aspects of the uncanny and disturbing. In order to be as versatile as possible in the global markets, today's mannequins cannot be assigned to a specific image of women anymore. As can be seen in the succession of Heads, the heads of the figures are sexless and so stylized that they are generally neutral ciphers for the human head. <topic> heads art work description series photography faceless identification
The former power of seduction of female art turns to be at times cool, exuberant aesthetics of pictorial abstraction. But the emphasis on pure artistic beauty proves to be tricky. <topic> series photography artistic idea
It is possible that the abolition of human traits seen as evil bitter comment on the absolutizing of the economy in politics and business. The image of man is vanishing from Clement’s photos exactly as it is also disappearing from the bare figures on balance sheets of a sales and profit oriented social order. <topic> series photography background social context political context
In an interview, Florian Ebner, Head of the Photographic Collection of the Folkwang Museum in Essen and this year's curator of the German Pavilion at the Venice Biennale, recently summarized the main themes of photography in recent decades. While in the 1980s the discussion about the panel painting dominated the photographic discourse, today it is about the circulation of the images or photos themselves. <topic> photography topics of work historical context
The series Heads and also on one's way could be understood as a confrontation with art, in this case not with the strategies of history paintings - narration and overpowering - to which Clement’s teacher Andreas Gursky takes, but with the still life. <topic> photography topics of work historical context
Conscious and mindful perception is denied to human beings in the digital world and its social forums. Hence, in the not lost in you series (2017, pp. 34–39) the former puppets are touched and palpated performatively with a real hand on a human body. This exemplifies the missing physical contact. In one of her earliest Portrait series, Clement had already made detail photographs of body parts covered with sometimes eye-catching clothing like leopard prints. But these images, resembling cutouts or clippings and aesthetically reminiscent of articles posted online, do not reveal the person depicted in their entirety. The works have titles such as liked (2013, fig. 2) and illustrate the play on absence despite presence. They reduce to absurdity the self-esteem derived from public recognition and the fetishizing of one’s own appearance by means of the new technologies, and conversely they comment on the changed, fake body consciousness and self-embellishment. <topic> art work description topics of work boundaries of human new human
In Petite Poucette, French philosopher Michel Serres introduced the concept of “Thumbelina.” Contact between one’s own skin and the touchscreen fosters a connection between the virtual and real worlds. This moment becomes an iconic act that opens up new speculations about the relationship between man and machine. <topic> boundaries of human philosophy upgrading the body
Against a background of the dynamic development of new technologies and of a digital revolution, the growing together of body and technology is a highly controversial border line experience. Out of this specific relationship between inside and outside, between self and environment, emerges an interplay that no longer seems to differentiate. Clement addresses this phenomenon impressively in her new work Schmerzraum (Space of Distress, 2019, fig. 3). <topic> art work description topics of work boundaries of human upgrading the body philosophy
In tune with the ever-advancing progress in science and technology and a predominantly computer-driven society, Clement makes use of one of the most up-to-date medical achievements: “e-dermis.” This is an artificial electronic skin developed at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore for people with prostheses. Its purpose is to restore feeling when they handle things to give them back a sense of touch. The sensations of pain and pleasure, both unique characteristics of living beings, can be simulated here and made usable by artificial intelligence. Clement papers a whole room with this artificial skin, thus once more creating a reversal of orderliness and conditions. <topic> art work description topics of work boundaries of human upgrading the body medium
This brings us up against the radical criteria and consequences involved in amalgamating current society and body technologies. The concept of being human is questioned and challenged. What are the consequences of outsourcing our consciousness? What happens when computer technologies are implanted into the human organism? These possibilities have figured in speculative visions of the future in literature or the cinema and have led to a separate philosophical genre (posthumanism), but they have long since become reality. <topic> sociology philosophy boundaries of human upgrading the body
Louisa Clement takes ethical self-doubt to a climax in her latest VR-Arbeit (VR Work, 2019). Here, the visitor encounters an artificial species—her invention of the Gliedermensch and receives, in conversation with the digital being, answers to his questions that, determined by an algorithm, are sometimes truthful and sometimes not. Clement’s work relentlessly seeks to confront the question of human existence in the digital age. Whether the outcome will be the conquest of man or the victory of humanity remains an open question. <topic> medium art work description topics of work human-machine opposition
The bombardment in the early hours of August 21, 2013, was different then all previous ones. The people in the rebel-controlled areas around the Syrian capital of Damascus heard a strange whistling sound before the rockets detonated. Soon hundreds of people with breathing problems streamed into the makeshift hospitals, others were found dead in their houses, their faces still covered with the towels they tried to protect themselves with. Those who survived the attack were short of breath and plagued by cramps. Some had to be treated for five days with oxygen, water, and atropin, which stops the transmission of nerve signals and is used as antidote for nerve gas poisoning. One week after the attack many were still sick and breaking out in sweat, extremely weary and suffering from hallucinations. <topic> historical context social context use of chemical weapons war poison
The worst however, according to one patient, were the nightmares. Activitists and the “Doctors without Borders“ organisation informed later that at least 335 people had been killed. In an area east of Damascus around 600 patients were admitted to a hospital, 125 of which died, among them 35 children. The sypmtoms: cramps, foaming in mouth and nose, reduced pupils – were clear indicators of nerve gas. The first victims had arrived alive, but many who were exposed to the gas for a longer period of time did not make it that far and were brought to the hospital after they had perished. Thus far a report in Welt from August 29, 2013. <topic> historical context social context use of chemical weapons war poison psychology
Researching the conflict in Syria, in northern Germany Louisa Clement discovered the remainders of the decomposition of chemical weapons. jet-black glass stones, in which – resembling pigments – the death-bringing potential is bound. Multiple loads of these stones, which are otherwise for example used for building roads, are placed on two capital pedestals in three rows at a time in the exhibition space and combined with a sound installation based on original recordings of the cooling process. <topic> medium exhibition poison topics of work art work description artistic idea inspiration
Both terrifying and beautiful, disturbingly dark, crystalline, stony and glassy they lie there – the material is sober and sublime at the same time, almost attractive and convenient if observed without the background described. but brutal, disgusting and cold once the story is known and one is aware of the special content. The retention of the glass stones in Fuhrwerkswaage Kunstraum and the almost geometrically straight and sacred meaning of their deeply opaque materiality and history shock and make speechless. How should one react – what reaction does such a work demand? <topic> medium exhibition poison topics of work art work description
Let's try a detour, as they remind me spontaneously of the works of land art, of the works of Richard Long and Robert Smithson. A Line Made by Walking was created in England in 1967 and marks the begin of the artistic trails of Richard Long, which he inscribes in the grass while walking up and down in a straight line and documents photographically. Besides the circle form, which manifests in Long's work early on, here he constructs the line of his proverbial work (mass x distance x time), visible as trace of time. <topic> artistic idea inspiration
Walking distance is always time distance as well and everyone finds it fascinating how trails and then routes are established, how grass and vegetation overall are displaced over time. Many people choose an efficient and rational, normally the shortest route between two points, a line which remains visible after a while – like ant trail in the forest. <topic> philosophy inspiration topics of work
Long's “sculptures“ are made visible in nature through a plot process, through the physical employment of walking a route. The day- and week-long walks in England, in Ireland, in the Alps, the Himalayas or in the deserts of Africa and Australia which followed his first line everywhere in the world, manifest themselves as artistic exploration and document the physical presence and individual time-and-space-experience of the artist. For the artist, the more “human“ aspect of the work is made visible by the temporary arrangement of stones, as the limited presence hints at the reality and transcience of human life. Sculptures, installations, and since 1981 also wall works are created which are not placed in the exterior, but through their materiality and arrangement are still connected to the mentioned landmarks. <topic> artistic idea inspiration
A short detour, Last Monday it became known that the Americans are now turning the war screw in Vietnam up another notch, they used poison gas against the guerilla. American and Vietnamese troops have used poison gas against the Vietcong multiple time Associated Press reports from Saigon. Different non-lethal irritant gases were tested in the areas of Second and Third Corps. Though US-spokespeople said that gas temporarily disabling an opponent is a more humane weapon than a bomb or a bullet, the gas-story earned the US the worst press of the Vietnam war so far. The Americans have handed the communists the perfect propaganda weapon, the Daily Mail in London stated. Radio Peking raged. The usage of poison gas by the American bandits in South Vietnam proves their complete disregard of the elemental principles of humanity and shows them as fascist cannibals. <topic> historical context poison war use of chemical weapons political context
In reality global opinion has fallen prey to the gas trauma of World War I, which led to the banishment of all gas weapons by the Geneva poison gas convention in 1925. The gas-taboo had only been broken three times since then: by the Japanese in China, the Italians in Abyssinia and – according to inofficial reports – the Egyptians in Yemen. (from: DER SPIEGEL 14/1965, Freie Jagd, 31.03.1965) <topic> historical context poison war use of chemical weapons political context
This leads me to the second land art artist Robert Smithson (and his “sucessor“ Sam Durant), who at the same time developed his theory of entropy, of sites and non-sites, crystalline forms, mirrors, soil and trees etc. in the US. What fascinates to this day, more than any other land art artists, is his new definition of existing conditions using different viewpoints. <topic> artistic idea inspiration
And insofar 1970's PARTIALLY BURIED WOODSHED at the Kent State University in Ohio is a remarkable piece of work. Robert Smithson conceived and executed this work during a week-long guest residence in January 1970. Clay was heaped upon a wodden shed by a digger until it collapsed. Years later it burned completely. And again 20 years later Sam Durant enters the game, who – given the title Partially Buried 1960s/70s Dystopia Revealed (Mick Jagger at Altamont) & Utopia Reflected (Wavy Gravy at Woodstock) – explores the utopian and dystopian moment brought about by the two music festivals. <topic> artistic idea inspiration
Durants parallel of this symbolic-historian comparison follows the idea of Simpson to not only remember the students who were killed at Kent State during the Vietnam protest, but also touches the many statements regarding the entropy of the 1960s and 70s, when the world was confronted with change – and Durant includes sound, that is music, in his wood shed sculpture. <topic> historical context inspiration political context
Let's return to Louisa Clement's installation. The comparison with land art might be born of a whim, but opens the problematic field of a sculpture that has both a political and aesthetic impact. Space, time, form, content, only these four aspects determine our perception and experience of art. What upon first glance is a sober arrangement of broken glass stones, discloses a horrible secret once the material and context is laid bare. Insofar it is no longer surprising that Louisa Clement uses sculptural methods, even sound in this installation as it is always a special line of argument to question one's preferred material by using a new one – and here photography (and medial images in general) as evidence- and indicator-framework with a space installation. What we see and hear is the shocking rigidity of an entropic process. Entropy as model for (our) society. <topic> art work description topics of work poison medium social context
Sarin, Richard Long, Robert Smithson, Sam Durant and Louisa Clement therefore exist in a genealogy of a spatial, political time stamping level, which contents of materiality always interact with and express a political consequence or motivation of action. I find it extraordinary that Louisa Clement, whose work methods of photographical observation of her surroundings and quotidian always had a constant, with this radical sculptural statement phrases a new view, a haptic dimension in the virtual space of possibility that is everyday warfare. Many thanks for this! Even if we are momentarily speechless in the face of the contemporary reality of a flood of refugees and refugee politics in Europe. <topic> topics of work poison inspiration social context
The invasion of reality into the imaginary does not happen in our art spaces, but radically politically in our immediate surroundings. Here and now. We should have a voice and spirit that brings cause and effect in a different context then the one of knowledge and power. This correlation as symbolical construct creates an awareness for strangeness, for the other, and it creates energy. Energy which is not wasted. Entropy made visible.(R. Smithson, 1973) <topic> psychology sociology
The coloristic contrasts and shape in her work accents this. Although the use of today's digital techniques as defined by Ebner, could be understood as a confrontation with the ubiquity of the photographic. Moreover, Clement can be associated with a further photographic tradition that Ebner has not mentioned in the conversation, namely the conceptual art of the 1960s and 1970s that began the inclusion of photography in the history of art. That Louisa Clement appeals to the conceptual art, is especially clear regarding her work in completed series. <topic> artistic idea art school series historical context
For the artists who discovered photography at the beginning of the 1960s had untapped opportunities in the medium or, as Jan Dibbets said in retrospect. "In those days photography was regarded as a completely useless medium, and if it was used, then only for the documentation of things. " While Dibbets was interested in the perspective characteristics of the photograph, a decade later, Hans-Peter Feldmann was working on the discrepancy of what we know from an image and what we see in it, e.g. when he photographed car radios, while good music was playing. <topic> artistic idea art school historical context art work description inspiration
Feldmanns casualness corresponds with Clements approach in which it is not about the outstanding frame, but the complex potential of form and color, which is hidden behind the supposedly laconic excerpts of our reality. <topic> artistic idea art school historical context inspiration
Louisa Clement’s artistic education was primarily as a photographer, but her activity has not been confined to classical photography, at least not since she created her mirror objects in 2015. In this analysis of individual groups of photographic works, I shall seek to show how the artist has exhausted a limited, medium-specific concept of the two-dimensional photograph, and at times transformed it, and how this is the almost inevitable upshot of the contemporary sociopolitical questioning that her approach involves. <topic> inspiration artistic idea social context political context
Even if, in the context of discussion of photography, it is tempting to pass over the question of pictorial content in favor of clarifying technical development, there is nonetheless one technical detail that should be covered first—because it is the hallmark of the artist’s thoroughgoing conceptual approach. In contrast to many well-known photographers (Hiroshi Sugimoto, for example) who use a nineteenth-century plate camera, Clement employs not a large-format camera for high-resolution images but the camera on her smartphone, thus utilizing an everyday object to produce art. <topic> artistic idea historical context inspiration
This sort of contemporaneity is already discernible in her on one’s way series produced in 2012–13. She shows cut-out-like details of railway train interiors. With these abstracted views—not initially identifiable, but then becoming perceptible for what they are—we can talk of a transformation of the visual experience of everyday things. Sven Beckstette rightly draws attention to the way that Clement here has “chosen perspectives and then edited the images in such a way that the details drawn from known reality dissolve into geometric, abstract compositions. And in the delicate pastel shades that reveal not only the artist’s sensitivity to color but also how Clement’s development started in painting before moving on to photography.“ This painterly look, not at all uncommon in modern photographic history, is emphasized by the use of the smartphone camera and the resulting shallow depth of field of the picture. <topic> series artistic idea art work description philosophy
It is also important to recognize that Clement’s photos are generally not the products of a quick, spontaneous act of image formation. It is particularly true of the early group of works on one’s way that the image draws the viewer into contemplative consideration. This engagement with technology and its function would not change in the years that followed. <topic> artistic idea art work description philosophy psychology
In looking at the subsequent works, it is important to keep in mind that Clement essentially operates in thematic groups or series of works. This is emphasized in an assertion from early 2018. <topic> artistic idea art work description series
My approach is as much conceptual as visual. I see my output as a network, made up of series and works, that grows denser with each item and traces an ever-deepening picture of our times. <topic> artistic idea art work description series philosophy
This becomes apparent in the following fifty-five-part series Head (2014 –15), which does not simply mark a crux in Clement’s work at the thematic level. The heads depicted are those of shop-window mannequins. With these figures, determined above all by their arrangement and ordering, we are dealing with faceless apparitions, largely deindividualized and hence also sexless: no more than allusions to human beings. <topic> series philosophy psychology artistic idea art work description
All the same, complete uniformity is fended off with various different colors, shapes, and outer surfaces of the objects, and with the startling variety of image sizes, so that one really can talk of anthropomorphic residues. These allusions to human appearances generate an emotional unease in the observer that strongly recalls the surreal tradition of the doll photographs of Hans Bellmer (1902–1975). <topic> artistic idea art work description human body boundaries of human
Fundamental to Clement’s contemporary approach here is a serial presentation, and one that concentrates exclusively on the head. The sightless Heads can ultimately be seen as the logical outcome of a society fixated on outward appearances. Here it becomes clear that human beings themselves have turned into goods—cost factors and asset values—and so the thematic approach of using shop-window mannequins is logical. <topic> social context sociology artistic idea art work description series
This is continued in Clement’s next series, fracture (2014). Here our attention is directed not to the heads of the mannequins but to their arms and hands. And fracture is not in the strictest sense a series, in that its pictorial organization is not focused on the central vertical axis, for the examination of various details brings in changing groupings, some of them seemingly ornamental. And switching between portrait and landscape formats has the same effect. <topic> artistic idea art work description series
At this point, a short, more general digression on the photographic image seems appropriate. A classical conception of the medium, longheld and still accepted in everyday usage in the medium today, takes the photograph as a depiction or reflection of reality. But artistic photography cannot restrict itself to such a concept and, on the contrary, in some of its manifestations (Appropriation Art, for example) diverges so far from it that reality’s reflection is reflected once again. <topic> artistic idea art work description
But one cannot grasp Clement’s approach through such a simple dichotomy, for it calls into question the conventional understanding of reality. It is also concerned with content, and only after that with the medium. Since Head Clement has been concentrating primarily on the theme of the body and the inter linked question of the boundaries of what is human. Where is the beginning of the artificial, and where does the idea of the human, its nature, cease? <topic> artistic idea human body boundaries of human philosophy human-machine opposition artificial intelligence
How are the shifts and changes in the human, the integration of artificial elements into human beings, to be comprehended? What social consequences result, or what conceptions of Man and of power are bound up in these changes? <topic> social context boundaries of human human-machine opposition artificial intelligence
Artificial interventions in the supposed “nature” of humans are not actually at all new. they have long been everyday occurrences, as we can see from a glance at, among many other things, our dentition, with is crowns and ultimate dental implants. And prostheses have been used for centuries to alleviate limitations on bodily mobility. The artificial heart (since 1969) is as little of an exotic one-off as the insulin pump for diabetics (since the 1990s), and it would not be difficult to list more examples. <topic> artificial intelligence human body boundaries of human human-machine opposition upgrading the body historical context social context
In recent years, though, interventions in the human body by technology and medicine have taken on a new quality, and as a result the question of the boundaries of the human has acquired an alarming prominence. In its extreme forms, or in visionary concepts, the classical human–machine opposition has been morphed into a hybrid form that focuses attention on the question of where humanity’s borders lie. <topic> new human human body boundaries of human human-machine opposition upgrading the body stopping the age
The changes to the image of man that have been outlined can be fitted into the cultural-historical tradition of the search for a “new man” which began (at the latest) with the advent of Christianity, reaching a preliminary peak in fascism’s totalitarian utopia and the October Revolution in Russia, before, via a broad theoretical discussion, continuing in the current technical modification of the human as a (disguised) ideological practice. That art has contributed in many ways to the history of this reflection of human existence is well-known, at any rate in the modern age. <topic> sociology philosophy historical context social context
So how is the question of the altered image of the human that we have outlined articulated in the work of Clement? Is her explicit artistic purpose to raise questions about the interpersonal and about contemporary political topics in her work? <topic> human body political context artistic idea
After radicalizing deindividualized heads to monochrome surfaces in the Portrait series in 2015—in the form of city-light advertisement placards following the generally accepted CMYK color model (Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and BlacK)—and thus quitting the photographic medium as narrowly defined, in the same year she went on to alter the form of pictoriality in the plastic work transformationsschnitt (Transformation Section, 2015). The intensified question of the image of humanity led Clement, albeit with some difficulty, to give up photography. <topic> art work description series
In the Head series, we can already see that photographic optics are coupled with various forms of abstraction that concentrate largely on the motif and on the elements of image size and image-capture technology. <topic> art work description series
Radicalization is apparent in further photographic works. The Avatar group (2016) consists of large, strongly colored images. Even an arthistorically ill-educated observer will not fail to see parallels with the dolls of Oskar Schlemmer (1888–1943). As so often happens, the reservoir of shattered utopias of modernism serves as a historical wrapper for the creativity of the contemporary artist. <topic> art work description series artistic idea historical context
The emphasis in the fractures group on details and extracts, for example, is radicalized along with the Avatars, so that the ever-changing composition hinders recognition of any reality beyond the image. At the same time, though, the seductive beauty of these sweeping, strongly colored forms on a black, seemingly placeless background creates an eerie effect, with the grouping of two or more figures suggesting a relationship of communication. It soon becomes clear that the anthropomorphic forms are not real people, but, once again, standing shop-window dummies. Their smooth, shiny surfaces, however, only evoke imaginings of (new) humans. they fail to show reality itself. <topic> artistic idea art work description psychology philosophy art work description
If in the Avatar group the figures largely dominate, and their context (or background) is only recognizable in a few places in the form of black planes, then in the next group, Gliedermenschen (Limb Beings, 2017), things have changed. Rather as in the fracture sequence, in these stretched-format images the concentration of motifs shifts away from the body and toward black arms and joints. The smoothness of their outer surfaces hints all the more at prostheses. <topic> art work description series human body
To put it in pathetical terms, the forms seem as though “almost completely dehumanized, nothing more than casings, as though soot-blackened or doused in pitch—hunted, marked by fate, wounded, despairing.” The extracted and cut-out-looking forms emerge entirely through sidelighting. The theme of living together appears in some pictures in the group, particularly in the enigmatic interaction of hands. <topic> art work description series human body artistic idea
Following on from this, though even more clearly from the Avatar sequence, a little later on Clement developed the group not lost in you (2017), in which she deserted the medium of photography for short video loops. Here a tight-fitting reddish or black glove bearing a striking ornamental pattern on a white ground interacts with the shop-window mannequins from Avatar. <topic> art work description series artistic idea
In this confrontation with the moving hand, the figures—all at once seemingly lifeless—are slowly, now and then erotically, grasped and fondled. But how authentic, how human, is this moving hand? Is there a real human hand inside the glove, or is the scene digitally animated, thus making it just as dehumanized as the rather alluring and lovely figures, and thus in glossy-aesthetic mode, animated only by artificial life? <topic> art work description series human body boundaries of human human-machine opposition artificial intelligence
For the viewer the question is left open, although the motion in the work is particularly unsettling. Louisa Clement has surely not yet pursued her artistic questions about the state of mankind and a contemporary comprehension of humanity to the very end. It is already becoming apparent that her work, both within and outside of the context of classical photographic images, is pressing on into a new sort of artistic image. <topic> art work description artistic idea social context
This will involve interaction and communication with artificial humans. And this interaction will occur not physically but in a visual, even a virtual, space where artificial intelligence will help the robot to become a true counterpart. Louisa Clement’s art does not reflect this reality, for it is no longer clear which reality it is that we are living in. Will this altered reality go hand in hand with a change in the idea of what is human? <topic> boundaries of human human-machine opposition artificial intelligence philosophy
Mixed realities, border crossing, A futuristic-seeming pictorial world first opens up in Louisa Clement’s series Head (2014 –15), with its enigmatic reflections on the surfaces of nonhuman heads with blurred contours. Monochrome backgrounds intensify the feeling of a vague, undefined location but also herald attractive spaces of potential. To judge from the relationship between figure and space, Clement relates on the one hand to early modernity, where the figure was already being used as an abstraction of the human body: as ist plastic representative. <topic> art work description series artistic idea philosophy
On the other hand, the unsettling quality that her paintings emanate can be traced chiefly to the style, which suggests a digitally processed image. The inanimate figures she chooses, as in Head I, function as alienated proxies and are stylized into icons in a digitized world that has spawned new cultural technologies, codes, and systems of thought. The featureless faces repeatedly appearing as sexless identification figures in a postindustrial, highly commercialized present generate an explosiveness in terms of humans as material and of the politics of body, origin, and power. <topic> art work description series artistic idea social context human body philosophy
Just as in the Avatar series (2016) or Gliedermenschen, mannequins from department store windows serve as a basic motif for reproduction via a smartphone camera, thus demonstrating the completely different conditions that creating a photographic image involves. In particular, Clement reflects on the radically changed scope of the photographic medium. how its integration into mobile devices endowed with computer functions is more or less equivalent to a metamorphosis. <topic> art work description series artistic idea philosophy
User-friendly controls have made digital operation the norm, transforming our entire global communications culture. These crucial consequences for a contemporary concept of reality, and its effects on the world we live in, caused Clement to question the fundamentals of her previous artistic work. Clement took as her starting point the status quo of digital image production, and in her creations she not only raises the question of the extinction of analogue photography but also pursues the debate about the function of the image in the context of digitization. <topic> artistic idea social context philosophy production medium
Photography has become part of everyday communication and interaction, but what type of information is actually conveyed via the medium, and what interests are represented, is seldom scrutinized. Clement’s approach, along with her studies at the Düsseldorf Academy, on the one hand, place her in the local tradition of pondering a media-mediated reality and, on the other, reflect completely new patterns of perception. <topic> artistic idea medium art school social context
In her three groups of works already mentioned, the constructed images, similarly composed with their motif of anonymous human-shaped dummies, serve as the starting point for locating humans in a digital environment. The figures in the Avatar series are made of monochrome fiberglass in soft pastel shades like pink, yellow, or green. Two or three figures have always been arranged in a composition, and, due to the chosen viewpoint, only detail shots of the groups and their limbs can be seen. The largely androgynous bodies take center stage, and their trendy colorfulness, set against the retrospectively altered black background, evokes a resemblance to a motif borrowed from the commercial worlds of pop and advertising culture images. <topic> artistic idea social context philosophy art work description medium
But the dummies are not conveying a sales-oriented message. Rather, Clement is reversing the meaning of the images. the substitute human is acting as a reflection not of reality but of its simulation. <topic> artistic idea social context philosophy medium human body
Nothing that advertises a mass-market product is detectable, which nullifies the viewer’s associations and assumptions. But at the same time this act leads to cultural strategies being laid bare. man himself is declared an identityless consumer object, and extinction of the subject is being proclaimed. Ultimately, with her hyperdigital image aesthetic, achieved through complex lighting control and manipulative image editing, the artist is leading us into new areas of interaction. <topic> artistic idea social context philosophy medium art work description
The title of the series, Avatar, refers to a term that has become established since the 1990s for an artificial image of a human in the virtual world and in social media. It is a link to self-representation in the virtual world, but it raises a huge discrepancy with reality. Clement turns her attention to precisely this contradiction and focuses on changing social techniques. <topic> artistic idea social context series boundaries of human human-machine opposition artificial intelligence
Gursky teached me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics I was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece? He forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually. <topic> inspiration art school artistic idea
The human body is the smallest room you as an individual has to deal with. This room is set in the space around you. I am trying to trying to find the line between being inside of this room and outside, what is impact you have on the outside and of other individuals. I choose the present and the absent of the body because i think this is one of the most changing and stabile topics at the same time in our society at the same time. <topic> inspiratoin social context new human human body boundaries of human
Most of my topics and ideas are coming from the daily live and also digital communication is a topic i am questionings a lot. For some the smart phone is a big part where this takes place so for me it is a logical and consequent step to work with the phone not only as the place of inspiration, but also as a part of the production. <topic> inspiration social context philosophy production
The Title refers to the area where the Gallery is and the Flight Number of our first flight to Milan. We decided to chose that title because that place is the pace where we show this dialogue for the first time. <topic> artistic idea exhibition art work description topics of work
The medium is always related to the content of the work, so I’m always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with. There is not really one medium I prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end. <topic> medium production philosophy
The new sculptures came from an artistic research about the borders of human relationships now a days what changed during the last years and how are we integrate artificiality and absence in our way of thinking, treating and interacting. That leads me to sex dolls and the question of an image your counterpart has to fit in. I was interested in the line between imagination and reality. What kind of image you fill in a person, how big is the part of imagination? I saw the border in the production moulds of sex dolls, these edge between the part where the material for the body will be filled in and the frame which holds the two mould together. These Edge is for me that line. <topic> artistic idea inspiration human body boundaries of human
The Avatar series plays with the tension between their artificiality and their otherwise human postures. the way the mannequins seem to have a physical interaction comes across as eerie, yet almost comforting. While the digital and the virtual are reshaping our individuality and behavioral patterns. <topic> human-machine opposition artistic idea social context series philosophy
The mannequin in my work are placeholders, they describes in that series something related to the human being but not being human. That is what the Avatar is for us in the digital world.  These mannequin bodies I am using make these questions on behavior, individuality and perhaps reality, a doubt of engagement, seriousness and sometimes misunderstandings visual. <topic> human-machine opposition series human body boundaries of human art work description philosophy
Actually there no specific point, I was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art. <topic> inspiration artistic idea plan production
My inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books. <topic> inspiration social context artistic idea
To me technology I a tool to transfer a content into an art piece, so If I have an idea in mind a content for an art piece I am searching for the strongest medium to form that content. <topic> medium topics of work production social context inspiration
The avatar is a digital identity, as I am dealing a lot with communication and digital communication in my work, mostly the question how the way of communication affected us and what is the meaning of the way we use to communicate. To make situation of communication visual I used mannequins, because the avatar is actually nothing really visual for me. I decided to use mannequins because I want to have the questions I am dealing with in my work generalized and not connected to one special person or me. <topic> inspiration social context human body artistic idea medium topics of work
I would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. See as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in. <topic> fellowship art school philosophy
I was very concentrated in working in my studio and preparing everything for the next exhibitions. <topic> exhibition organization exhibition current work production
I hope to expand my skills in terms of research, media and content, finding new questions about the world we are living in and how we are dealing with it, during our time. <topic> plan fellowship social context
I didn’t choose to become a photographer, I am an artist. But of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which I transform content into something visualized. At Kunstakademie Düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (Freie Kunst), which is not explicitly a photography class. The focus in Gursky’s teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality. <topic> art school artistic idea medium
Kunstakademie Düsseldorf is where Bernd and Hilla Becher led a class (just like Gursky today) and established what became the so-called Becher or Düsseldorf Photo School. In their class were artists like Laurenz Berges, Andreas Gursky, Candida Höfer, Axel Hütte, Thomas Ruff, Jörg Sasse, Thomas Struth, so it is obviously one of the best places to study if your work has anything to do with photography. The exchange with them is very frequent, not only in the academy but also in daily life as well. <topic> art school fellowship artistic idea current work
The idea of the series came up when I had new identification photos made for my passport: how little character and emotion can you express with your face to get the right biometric passport picture? Standardization is a big topic in our society. With this idea in mind I observed the mannequins all over the city without eyes, noses, and mouths. I started to take their "portrait" to find out the line between abstract form and head. The iPhone has become a natural part of our daily life, so for me it makes sense to use this camera now. <topic> inspiration artistic idea series philosophy production medium topics of work
The heads series was about trying to find a personalty in a form in some way. This filling of a form with a personality led me to think about the digital personality every one of us builds up by using Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc. I asked myself: what do these avatars have to do with our real personalities? <topic> topics of work series artistic idea inspiration philosophy
The photographs were also taken by my iPhone. <topic> production medium series
No, I‘m not. For me, the different levels of communication are the main topic of the series. The question has always been, is digital communication something different than a real, face-to-face communication between human beings? <topic> topics of work artistic idea social context philosophy series
Of course, I am aware of these artists, the use of mannequins, and their relevance in art history. Bellmer and Cindy Sherman have been especially important for my series. But the most important influence is Oskar Schlemmer and his theories about the ideal human in space. <topic> inspiration artistic idea historical context series
I see my work more and more questioning the world and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided into series and pieces as a part of the whole thing. <topic> topics of work art work description plan series philosophy
I started working with mannequins as a form of placeholder for people and also as a visualization of avatars. Since I have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work I needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way. The series are for me different studies, partly situational, which refer to each other in different ways and are linked to each other. <topic> series medium artistic idea philosophy production
Since there is a performative act in the video series not lost in you and one person acts with the avatar, but I consider the basic feeling and question of the work to be something general that everyone knows, I also wanted to abstract and generalize the human body from the person acting in the video, to achieve this I chose the ornamental Nylon fabrics. <topic> artistic idea production medium topics of work
I believe that digital communication was a great relief at that time as a bridging factor and for me time has proven once again that the purely digital is not a possibility for human interaction. The human being needs the real counterpart and the direct contact. <topic> social context sociology psychology philosophy
At the moment I'm trying to find further boundaries, both in terms of media and content, and to ask the questions about the real and the artificial in our world even more animalistically. That's exactly how I am reminding and making aware of topics that occupy me and that I am working on. <topic> current work topics of work artistic idea boundaries of human artificial intelligence
I am questioning topics like closeness and intimacy by focusing on the digital realm as it sets the terms for development and changes our way of thinking and behaving. I am working mostly with mannequins for two reasons. First because the questions I am dealing with are general rather than personalized. The other reason I am working with mannequins is that I am interested in avatars, as the digital identity of a human being. To visualize the interaction between avatars, I needed something closely related to the human body yet that is also abstract and far removed from it. <topic> artistic idea medium production human body philosophy topics of work
With the issues of how our daily lives and society more generally is affected by technology, the iPhone was the perfect and most consequent tool to work with. Questioning and reflecting on digital communication and our digital identities, the smartphone is the primary place where these process and interactions happen. It therefore makes sense to me to work with the smartphone also as a tool, since a lot of the questions I work with are connected to it. <topic> inspiration artistic idea medium production topics of work
I am discussing where human beings find their self in the digital and real world. Today it is obvious that the digital realm changes our way of dealing with each other, in both positive and negative ways. Identity and Humanity are two quite contested frames. They are explored, also in an artistic manner. To me, as an artist, it is important to include a contemporary feeling of these terms in my work. <topic> social context sociology topics of work inspiration philosophy
This work grew out of the question of whether a conversation is a real conversation when you have it with a bot, and not with a human being. Today we are routinely talking to avatars, bots and human beings. What is the difference, in terms of quality of the conversation, realness, importance and exchange? In the VR-work Aporias (2019), I wanted to find out what the essence of a conversation with bots is, so I had to meet them to talk to them. To come as close as possible to a real meeting, VR was to me the logical choice of medium for creating a situation where I could meet and interact with AIs. <topic> social context sociology philosophy artistic idea inspiration topics of work political context
I think there are several artist inspiring me, Bruce Nauman, is very important for me, as Sigmar Polke, Hans Bellmer, but also Leonardo Da Vinci, Andreas Gursky, Wolfgang Tillmans, Oskar Schlemmer, Barbara Kruger. <topic> inspiration historical context art school artistic idea art work description
Because I like that the picture is generated from the world we are existing in. From this basis of that “real” photograph I am working through my questions, and transform the image into that question. As I am working with questions and issues related to our current everyday life, I always need to have one foot in this daily world. <topic> medium inspiration philosophy artistic idea production topics of work
