150
we decided to do the exhibition at our place at the Riad, opening will be on the 6th of may, so we have our conference at the 7th at ours as well. Everybody is happy with that and starts working. Amine told us yesterday to send a list of things we need: 1 screen earphones 3 projector speakers 5 power mulitplugs 2 Mediaplayer bluetac table. It would be nice if you Sanaa could organise these things for us and let us know when we can start to work with the equipment.
I need a possibility to print ( Amine offered the possibility to print at his office) junior needs to print as well but just 4A format.
It is great to meet you and talk about all the Projects. But on Monday I have to be in Düsseldorf, because i am shortlisted for the art prize of the city. The presentation is on Tuesday, Monday is installing. Would it be possible to meet the Monday After? That would be so Great.
2:30 is great, we can meet in your office, i bring my laptop at the moment there is not that much to see, i am still in production of some piece. but i have everything on my computer.
i am looking forward meeting you next week.
here are some points how the series fit into a lager context, (that is just for you nothing to quote or to print). the heads have a connection to Bernd and Hilla's Bechers topographies or to Hans-Peter Feldmann's way of collecting images, so more or less the conceptual way dealing with photography, but transformed into today. Gursky and Ruff are still references in terms of what can photography be and how can i use it to get the image i need for the content of my pieces. Gursky as well for the questions what are contemporary topics, what is a piece of work and what is not.
the avatars are in the way how they were set in the pictures, more related to Wolfgang Tillmans and his portraits. i am quite bad putting my self in the context. 
I hope you all are well. I just finished my Avatar-Series. The final size of each will be 100 cm x 75 cm. Perhaps we can choose which we want to show and as well with the heads. Do we want to show the whole series or a selection the whole would be 55, could be a lot. I put them in my last exhibition in a tableau.
Great to read that, thank you!
i am very happy that you like the avatar series so much. how much pieces do you think we should show? the series of the heads are 55 ( they are all framed in my studio blocked for our show) so we can show all of them and some of the avatar or a group of the heads and a group of avatars, as you like. perhaps some of these below i think they could work. if you have any other ideas, please let me know or other pieces. do you have a final list of artist also being part of the exhibition?
with Gursky it seems to be a little bit difficult. he isn’t sure about the guest list right now, he thinks about a very small event but will let me know when he decided. He will fly the day after his opening to LA, so he won’t be there for our opening but perhaps he will come around while installing.
i will sent pictures from Berlin, for New York, everything sounds really great thank you a lot. i’ll be on the outlook and looking forward the interview.
The frames Are 39 cm x 27 cm x 3 cm each, i will out them in bubble wrap and in two cartons. The Avatars are 120 cm x 90 cm x 4cm and wrapped in bubble wrap as well. Is that ok?
the NY Times is online.
here my answer to the questions for the catalogue if you have any questions or notes please let me know.
of course, i am very happy if you use one of them!!! you can use the one you like, i am very happy with all of them. the image caption should say: Avatar __, 2016, 116 cm x 86 cm, Inkjetprint and at the card could be important the courtesy which is me and Sprüth Magers.
Yes i have everything! Can i hand it to you tomorrow. I am in Germany right now for a family celebration and return tomorrow.
Anne Marie Bonnet gave me your contact to invite you to my exhibition opening tomorrow at the cité. The opening will be at 19:30 and the show will be on till the 11th of November. Perhaps you find time to have a look. I would Be very happy about that.
thank you Berlin was amazing, a lot but great. Thank you for questioning me, sounds fun i would love to come on the 26th. Perhaps we can meet on Thursday or Friday this week, i am till Wednesday in Paris, today is the opening of my show here and on Saturday i am going to Munich for a week to work on a project for next year. but on Thursday and Friday i m totally free, so just let me know when you have time and i come around.
thank you for the information. I am so looking forward our exhibition, this will be so great! If you need anything else please let me know.
i am coming at the 6th and will stay till the 18th so the reception and artist talk is great for me thank you for organising that. i just booked a room but if you have any place cheaper, please let me know.
Everything is perfect thank you. Of course i will be at the Gallery at Thursday at 10. i am looking forward to!!!!! In the afternoon I have to go to the opening of Gursky, but in the Morning is Great! 
We meet yesterday at the Dinner of Andreas Gursky, who was my teacher at the Academy of Arts in Düsseldorf. I would love to invite you to my Exhibition opening Next Tuesday at Stella Rays Project Space. Above you can find the invitation, the Website to the show and my Website as well. Hopefully See you there!
it was very nice to meet you and your wife yesterday at the opening I hope you had a nice evening. As promised I sent you pictures of the whole series of the heads and the Avatars. Below the link to my website were you can see more works. If you are interested in buying here is the contact of Ludmilla Lancés who is working with me at Sprüth Magers in Berlin at the moment. And if that is ok for you I would love to inform you about my exhibitions and keep you informed about my work, I hope we stay in contact.
great choice, I am very happy that you are interested in the work, I talked to the gallery i am working with and the heads you want are all available and of course framed.
yes lets have a cocktail so I tell you about the show and you about your project, would be great. Would Wednesday fine for you? 
i am finally back in bonn! I hope you are well. i can come to catch my things any time. just let me know when it is good for you.
I hope you are well, I wanted to let you know that the pieces are back in my studio everything went perfect.
I would love to be part, please sent me the user guide.
Sorry busy times at the moment. I would love to show one of the pieces. I thought it should be something on paper to propose to you. I will bring one of the pieces to Beirut. I definitely agree with you that this is so important to show in this context. I will later sent you all information, the catalog pdf, there are two Text so you can choose which one we want to use.
so nice to meet you, i am so exited and looking forward our opening tomorrow!!!
I hope you are well. I will be in Amsterdam next Wednesday and want to visit the Huis Marseille of course. Perhaps you have time for a coffee, that would be so nice.
no i am around on Thursday as well. I have an appointment at the De Ateliers around 13 but afterwards i am free, so we could meet then as well.
thank you for you mail, i really like your selection and great. I am so looking forward the show! I just arranged the production of the pieces, so they will be ready by the end of April and will be in my studio. I am not sure if i am able to come to the opening, because my opening at the Wallraf Richartz museum in Cologne is actually on the same day, it could be that this will be moved to the 21st but that is not sure. It would be so great to be at the opening. but i will definitely come the week after the opening to see the show! I am so exited! Do you have a special title for the show and can you give me the name of the others artist, that would be so great? and please let me know if i can help or support you in any kind, do you need more catalogs or any other information? Oh i love the title, great and the list of artists as well. It will be a really great show! I am so excited!!!! And i will check out if i can change the date for the other exhibition and let you know otherwise i come the week after.
Until now I always installed the piece in a horizontal row, just once in a presentation in France I installed them more as an all over, please be free to install them how it is the best for the whole exhibition. The works will be framed in wood.
I just decided to go to Brussels next week and just saw Gladstone is opening a Cybrien Gallard show on Monday. You are not there, are you? If you are, we could meet for a coffee, I will be around till Thursday.
nice to meet you and here are the h-res images of the pieces I will show in the summer show.
Yes I would love to. I am Friday till Sunday around. Let me know, when it is good for you to meet!
All the other pieces are free to sell. Just these two series are not anymore. Of course we can show different series and have some for sale and some not. Please be free to call anytime if there are question.
It would be very nice to meet you. Let me know when you have time.
I hope you are well. I am so looking forward our exhibition, and being so sad not be able to come to the opening, but i will come to New York directly on the 23th and stay for some days. let me know if you have time for a coffee or a drink, that would be so great! oh and do you have an invitation card as jpg or pdf?
It was nice to meet you at the Art Basel Brunch in Kassel. I would love to stay in contact. Attached you can find my portfolio. And if you are in New York around the 22th of July I am part of a Groupshow opening on that day at Gladstone i am not able to be there from the opening but the week after. I hope you had a great time in Kassel and wish you great days in Basel.
i hope you’re well! i am so excited seeing the show next week. I will arrive at the 24th and will leave again on the 28th. My schedule is very relaxed, let me know when it is good for you to meet. here are some impressions of the show in the Wallraf Richartz Museum opening on Thursday this week as well.
How was the opening yesterday? I hope everything went well and you had a great evening. I saw the installation shots on the website, the show looks so great, i am so exited to see you and the show next week.
Thank you so much for helping with my baggage, complete disaster .. since 4 days without suitcase ...Yes that is perfect! I'll be at the show then at 4:30! 
I am so happy with the show Miciah made and that he invited me, it looks really great and is amazing, so worth the whole adventure to come to see that in real. On the day of the opening here i had an opening in Cologne as well in the museum and we made a small catalog for that show ( pictures attached) now i wonder if you have an address were i can sent you one of those? I hope i meet you in person next time in New York or Europe.
of course we can all meet in Cologne and i show you the show there, and i can bring some books and my laptop, to show some more pieces. it is closer to Düsseldorf. i am fine with both. perhaps Cologne is a little bit easier to go to Herold and Düsseldorf. just let me know what is the best for you. 
Irene Cassina from Cassina Projects in New York gave me the advice to contact you. I am an artist from Germany, going on a trip to Tel Aviv from the 21.-28.7. I hope it is ok that i contact you. I am going to Tel Aviv to learn a little bit about the scene there and to get new impression for my one work, i am doing photography, video and sculptures. Perhaps you have some good advice to get an impression of the contemporary scene in tel aviv or time for a coffee in that week. that would be great.
I hope this email finds you well. I am an artist from Düsseldorf and a good friend of Claudia and Thomas from Konrad Fischer. I am in Tel Aviv this week, perhaps you have time for a coffee or a drink. It would be great to meet you.
I hope you are well, next week is a little bit difficult because i am on a trip then.the week after would be better. I think it would be easier if you organise the transport back and forth so you have directly the invoice and the times. And can you sent me the invitation and the exact date of the exhibition, that would be great!!
I hope you are well and you have a great summer. I recently came back from Israel which was amazing and now I am on holiday in Spain, wonderful time. I just wanted to sent you the link to this super nice article on artsy came out yesterday ;) https://www.artsy.net/article/artsy-editorial-12-artists-summer-group-deserve-solo
Thank you so much for this great article!!!!! It's really great!!
No problem, I don't have my favourite courier. I am recently on a trip but will sent you the sites directly tomorrow when I am back. For me it is important that the pieces are insured and we need to do something like a contract if that is ok for you, about the shipping back and forth and how long the pieces will stay with you. I need just a contract between us, so if we can make that till Thursday that would be great otherwise i cannot sent the work, i hope you understand that. I am looking forward the show, I will try to come over for the opening. Do you have an online invitation already you can sent me ;)
the sizes are for the both small velvets ( black and purple) 70x50x10 cm and the green gold one 120x65x12 cm.
that is so nice to hear. the new sculptures will be produced next month but here are some sketches. And the last series of photographs are based on an essay of Heinrich von Kleist about marionettes. I made this series quite connected to my series called avatars and the series you saw at gladstone. I show them at the moment at the wallraf richartz museum in cologne. from that series i am developing my next sculptures. In terms of photography i am thinking about anonymity and privacy. There are several quite interesting theses developing in Switzerland regarding to AI. But i am absolutely not sure how the pieces will look like in the end. But this is what i am recently thinking about. Next week i am back from Switzerland were I am now. So it would be great to talk next week if that is ok for you. Next week i am completely free so let me know when it is good for you.
of course the credits are not ok like they are, you have the time and information about the piece in the contract and it is important to use the right title and the right information for that. the pieces are now on there way to you, after the address and the labels you sent were wrong. I have not really a good feeling with that as you can imagine …
First of all I have to say that I was very happy about the invitation from you to be part of the show. I like your project very much!
But I asked Maria three times for the photos that I can decide what happens with the pieces. No answer from her. That is absolutely not ok. She is not allowed to bring my piece to the framer without my agreement. That is absolutely not the way how things like that should go. Aside of that she printed the card with my picture without credits or even showing me the card, which is not ok as well. At least you have to talk about things like that with the artist. My question about the date of the opening ( i actually wanted to come to the opening) and the title of the exhibition wasn't answered, I got that later from the invitation card. I am sorry, but that is not how you work together. And I am very sorry, i am and was working with some galleries smaller and bigger ones but something like that never happens to me and at the moment I don't see how I can part of the exhibition. I hope you understand my problem with this situation.
Can you please sent me images of what you did with my piece so that I can decide if it is possible to show the piece or not. All right, then let's show the piece. I hope the opening will be great!
I hope you are well, I would love to invite you to my opening and exhibition "Des Tänzers Weg der Seele", Friday 15 September at WENTRUP Gallery in Berlin. Perhaps you are around these days or the next week. It was such a great time in Israel, I already booked to come back in October.
i hope you are well and you had a good start back in the season. My opening in Berlin was wonderful really great time over there. Perhaps you can make it to see the exhibition. Here are some impressions of the show. All in black this time ;-)
i hope you’re well, i have just a little question, you told me about this beach near Haifa where you sometimes go, because it is the nicest but sometimes you can see bombs over there. do you know how this beach is called? hope to see you soon, thinking about coming to Israel again this fall.
My summer was great, yes Israel was amazing, such an inspiring place, i am thinking about going there next month again, we will see. How was your Summer?
I was at the opening, the show is so wonderful, really intense. Great to see so much pieces aside to each other, really great and the dinner was so nice so many friends of Herold were there celebrating him, there was this feeling of an old time coming up again so nice. I didn't get the images can you sent them to me again? Oh and here some images of my recent show in Berlin opened last week.
Thank you!! I really like the show! I didn't meet Tamir but we are in contact I think I will see her next time then. I am so looking forward going to Israel again. Let me know when you're coming to see the show of Herold, you can always stay here!
Thank you so much for your time and advises. It was very inspiring and i’m now even more interested to work on a project. So I worked a little bit on my concept and try to explain my idea more clearly so that it is easier to get an idea of what i want to do. I am now going through the websites you told me and would love to learn more during a workshop that would be amazing.
I hope you are well and everything is ready for the next days, I’m looking forward the Jahresgaben Weekend, will be fun! I have a question, I will have my first exhibition at Konrad Fischer Gallery Düsseldorf in January next year, yesterday I talked to Thomas and we decided that it would be great if we would have a text about the pieces I am showing. I know it is a little bit spontaneous, we would need the text before Christmas, but anyway, I would love to ask you if you are interested to write this text? I would be very glad!
all my best to you for the new Year. I hope you are well. I want to invite you to my next solo exhibtion at Konrad Fischer Gallery in Düsseldorf. The opening is at the 19th of January. But the show is running till March. perhaps you are around during this time. I would love to show you the new pieces.
Great, let me know if you can be in Düsseldorf, we will have a small Dinner before the opening with Gursky, and some people, not many. would be nice to have you there. If not Berlin is always fine.
Thank you for your nice Mail! I will sent you some Images when we are ready! I am thinking about coming to New York in March during the Armory Show, i am involved in a Exhibition at the Huis Marseille in Amsterdam about the Becher School and Düsseldorfs Photography, if they don‘t need me installing my pieces ( i am quiet sure they don‘t) I can come to New York. Perhaps we find an evening for a gin tonic then???
i am very well thank you! I had my opening at Konrad Fischers last Friday and now I am quite happy and a little bit relaxed! I hope you are well, too. I am very exited and looking forward the show. of course you can use my work, i think it looks really great!!! thank you so much for choosing my image that is a big honour for me in that huge context. Can you sent me some invitations when they are printed?
Thank you, that is a great honour for me! of course i agree with the Design!!
good to hear from yo, i hope everything is well. The show at Fischer is going great, i really like the gallery and the history of course, really a pleasure to be shown there.I meet Curtis once last year with Rosi Trockel. At the opening he was ill so we are planning a dinner during the next weeks, will be fun i am sure about! he is super nice.
At the moment I am working on different things, it is a lot but everything are good things and fun to work and think about. At the moment I am working on three shows in May, one for Wentrup gallery during the gallery weekend in Berlin, where i will show the dries van noten videos ;-) and perhaps a new series of photographs about upgrading the humans. There is this new possibility to buy implants which you can transplant in you hand, for caring data with you, open your car with and having wifi everywhere. they are very pretty but have this complete discussable ethical part, which interests me. I am right now traveling to Hamburg to a company producing these things they are selling these implants and pills to boost your brain, super weird things. After this show, i have a show at the Kunsthaus Riehen, next to Beyerle Foundation, which is part of the side programm for the art basel, there i will show different series and how they are connected to each other. and after this show i will have a small show during the architecture biennale in Venice, so crazy may but good may as well ;-) i forgot there is this Bernd and Hilla Becher exhibition in Amsterdam next month where i am in as well :-)
Recently I preparing my first virtual reality project, which is related to the black mannequin photographs i did last year. The plan is to meet one of them in a virtual space. Through an AI-Algorihim the mannequin will start to talk to you, it gets his information from the internet, so it can ask and answer question it will be quite close to a normal conversation. The clue is that the mannequin is connected to two algorithms, one of them is programmed to lie. though an random function you never know when it is lying and when it is the thought. gesture and body reactions are connected to the vr glasses so directly to the observers eyes. I am pretty happy that a company here in Cologne is a strong supporter of the piece so they are doing all the programming and i just wondering how people can have such technical skills, haha, it is super fun to do this pieces.
photographically i am working on a series about stopping the age, there are several new studies on that which are quite interesting and i like this very old topic and question nobody has answered until now and of course the question if it would be good to find a solution. aside of that i am planning to go to Israel to work there but still no idea what exactly will happen there, there is just the feeling, that something will come out, to i follow that.
a lot good things right now, it is really a good time i have to say ( head is exploding of ideas, that makes super happy). I thinking about come to New York after May, i will let you know when i know for sure.
it was a pleasure to meet you on Friday and thank you again for the nice Dinner. I hope you had some great days in Düsseldorf and Wuppertal. I would be very happy to welcome you in April in my studio. please let me know when it is a good time for you the first part of the month i am completely free, so any time is good for me.
thank you for the invitation, i am looking forward the exhibition and the dinner.that is great, a small group is good to talk about things and it is easier for them to ask questions i guess.My plan would be to first visit the exhibition and tell a little bit about the Becher school, from the beginning to now, will be a little history but i think that is important know and to understand the development of the Becher school and the next generation which I am a part of. 
but then i will basically focused on the way of production of Bernd an Hilla Becher,then how they teach, how the „düsseldorf school“ came up, what kind of production do we see and how do they work and how they find their inspiration. After that i will talk about how my educational way was, what Gursky taught in his class and what i learn from him and how we see photography nowadays, therefore i would name Jan Dibbets as well if that is ok. i know he is from Amsterdam but he taught in Düsseldorf as well and did this amazing show of photography in Paris, pandoras box, i would bring the catalogue, and talk about borders of photography, just short but i think this is super important, but just if that is ok? I will show some pieces to make a little bit clearer what i am doing, the way of thinking behind and the concept.
here i have one question, as the group is so small, do you want me to print the pieces so that we can just hang around quite casual and talk about things or shall i make a digital portfolio? after that i will talk about how to find ideas and inspiration. i will talk about a very recent project what will come up in May, i think that is the best way, to like break the borders, something not ready, so they can ask and see what it is really about. therefore as well i would bring research material or include that in my digital portfolio as you like. for me it is important that the students always can ask question or tell what they see or what they don’t like for example, do you have anything what is missing for you or something we should leave out?
Great, of course I am around, I would love to see you in Berlin, let me know when you have time I am not busy except of the opening. If you are free at the Friday evening of the opening, be very invited to the opening and dinner afterwards! Invite will come next week!
the 20th sound great, I am looking forward to meet you in bonn and hear more about your shows, sounds interesting.
I hope you are well, I would love to invite you to my next exhibition opening next Friday in Berlin. I would be very happy to see you there, and I am except of Wednesday the whole week in Berlin perhaps you are around as well so we can meet for a coffee.
Thursday would be perfect we will finish installing by Tuesday, so Thursday in the afternoon would be perfect.
Great, let me know when it is good for you, I am looking forward meeting you again.
Yes is was very nice, is it possible that you come a little bit earlier, at 11. my next show I am as little bit crazy and tomorrow will be the last thing to solve and eventually I have to go to Basel tomorrow evening. Would that be possible?
I hope you had a good time in Berlin it was nice to meet you there again. I would love to invite you to my next exhibition opening next week in Riehen near Basel and next to Beyerle Foundation at the Kunstraum Riehen. The show will run through Art Basel, perhaps you are around.
I would love to invite you to my next solo show and first in Switzerland. The show will open next week but will be on during Art Basel as well. It is next to Beyerle Foundation. Perhaps you are around at that time, I would love to show you the exhibition
please don’t mind, i know how crazy gallery weekend can be. I’m planing to come to New York in Juli, the end of July. I don’t know of you know cassina projects they asked me just some days ago to do a show next year at there place, do you know them? i’ll let you know the exact days directly when i have booked.
Let me know when you are around, I‘m in Basel during the whole Art Basel week. Would be great to see you!!!
I hope you are well and the fair is great for you. Tomorrow there is a vip breakfast in my exhibition at the Kunstraum Riehen next to the Beyeler foundation, I am very spontaneously allowed to invite people by myself, so I would love to invite you to this breakfast at 9:30.
I thank you for your time and the nice conversation. I would love to do the piece together. The piece I am thinking about is related to my latest series of photographs called „gliedermenschen“. my idea is to create surrounding were you can meet one of these "gliedermenschen“ and can talk to them. the mannequin should react to the person talking to them in terms of body language and answering questions or ask question itself though two AI Algorithms, one is programmed to respond by using true information the other one is programmed to lie. the information for the answers is coming from the internet. in addition the mannequin should be able to find a connection to Facebook or other social media platform to get information about the person to whom the mannequin is talking, to ask personal questions as well. I can think about a situation where the mannequin and the person are sitting on a table or are walking through a city or nature.
I am very looking forward seeing you and of course you, Dado tomorrow at Sale e Tabbachi
I hope you are well, my plans to come to New York changed, Cassina projects offered me the opportunity to make a show in Milano and not in New York now, so I will go to Milano to see the space over there. Recently I am working on some new pieces and will traveling a lot the next months. I‘m planing to go to San Francisco for a project so I could stop by in New York then.
I hope you are well. I have a question, do you have any information about the gallery in Bilbao? I still have trouble with them because of the damaged pieces of last year, now you cannot reach them anymore. Do you have any information.
Great, just let me know if you need me on Berlin or in London, both is always fun to go!
this is the first sketch i am still thinking about the background in terms of light and depth.
Yes it was a great meeting on Monday! I am so excited about the project!! Looking forward hearing from you and of course working on our project.
Tomorrow is perfect, i have a meeting at 10 but afterwards I am free, any time is good for me.
Nice to hear from you, the summer was great, I hope yours as well.
Thank you for the great opportunity to show with you at the art Düsseldorf. I will think about some works which would be good to show there. Please be very invited in my studio every time. I am planing to come to Brussels around the 14th of September, perhaps we can meet there as well.
i thought about the problem with the bot, I think if he gets some stories to tell and to start a conversation the pieces is still very good. I could come to London next Tuesday or Monday the 10th or Tuesday 11th for example.
I hope you had a save journey back to Ghent on Friday. I was a little bit hungover on Saturday :-) great evening, very funny. I just looked up the space in Mexico of Bosco Sodi you told me about, it looks fantastic, so if you could propose me to them, it would be fantastic, Mexico is so interesting would be great to work there.
I hope you are good as well. Yes i am available between 1 and 3 and 4 till 6 ( Berlin time) would that fit for you? All right, will be there at 2.
i hope you are well and you had a wonderful summer. I just got some great news again, I got a fellowship for spending 3 month in LA in the Thomas Mann house next year, i am really looking forward to be there and to work there.
in addition to that i am part of the culture delegation of the german foreign minister and will travel with him to Washington in two week to open the german year in America, another thing i am so looking forward to, it is pretty exciting to get an impression of these political environment.
and last but not least, i am working on a virtual reality piece with a new company in London called acute art, https://acuteart.com , Daniel Birnbaum is the ne director, the piece will be shown first time in January at my first solo show at the Sprengel museum and will afterwards shown in the Ludwig forum in Aachen but also in the Kunstmusuem in Bonn and now we are talking about showing it at Serpentine in London. so everything is going amazing at the moment :-)
here is my new first sketch, i am still thinking about doors in the background were the mannequins can come and leave but perhaps they can just come from the side, we will see.
I am free in half an hour, would that fit for you?
i hope you are well and you had a great summer. I have a question, next year i have a fellowship in LA and will stay at the Thomas Mann House over there for three months. I have the idea to work about the age, more specifically i want to focus on the ideas of a company called Calico which is connected to Google and their slogan is we’re tracking again. until now it is not really clear what this company is doing, but Google invested ca 750 million dollar in that project. I just wonder as you have contact to Google if you could connect me to a person who knows about the company. it would be great to start thinking about that topic form that point on or eventually take some very abstract photos at this company, nothing were you really can see something. it would be amazing to get at least a little information what they are doing.
yes i am very well, i was in Washington with the foreign minister this week, just for 22 hours but is was really funny :-)
the avatar 29 is in my studio ;-) the other one is already in the gallery right? i am mostly around the next weeks so transport can be anytime!!!!
can you sent me the room plan of the gallery, i would like to start thinking about the exhibition.
great, i will produce them, when do you need them to be ready?
Great. Yes with the framer everything will be fine. I will connect you with the framer some days before the fair that you can explain where to go on the fair.
Yes I am in Berlin in the 24th until lunch? Can we meet in the morning? Tuesday is also good for me, the earliest would be 11, I am the whole day free. Perfect, looking forward meeting you tomorrow!
I m very glad about your interest in my project. Thank you so much. During some researches I found your paper about the e-dermins perceives touch and pain. I am more than impressed about this development and very interested in this material. I am working a lot about the human body and the future of the human body. Because of your material I am thinking about a new piece, a room sensing pain. I would love to line a small room. It would be great to explain my project a bit more and to talk and learn about your fantastic researches. For that my question would be if you could support my project in terms of information. I am wondering if there is a possibility to get the material. I would love to visit you in Baltimore, is this possible during the next weeks, I am planing a trip to the US, on the 19th of August I have to be back in my studio in Bonn.
great thank you so much for your support. I am recently thinking a lot about the theories about post humanism and transhumanism today. I am actually focusing on the philosophical discussion and the question what the changes of technique and upgrades of the human body does in terms of society and ethic skills. To me this is really interesting at the moment we have so much changes and developments people are in between attraction, fear and need. One of my biggest topics is robotic and AI. my first point for the piece I am planning now was a theory of some futuristics, they are dealing with the theses that 2045 the human being doesn’t need the human body anymore to be alive, which I think is not really possible, because of feelings and experience. One of our strongest experience is pain, physically and mentally. then I found your amazing paper and this was absolutely groundbreaking to me, because the material is body and not body and can feel. so I thought about a small room were the walls are covered by your material, so the person in the space is in a space with one of the strongest perception the human being can have and this related to the time we are living in. how did you find out how this skin can differentiate pain and normal contact? does the person wearing this skin on the protheses need to train this kind of different feeling? I could come between the 13th and the 18th to Baltimore or if you could send me some material that would be amazing, then i would if that is ok come later that year, I would love to see the lab.
that sound really interesting. Impressive who the body react and of course more pressure in a smaller area of the body leads to pain. It would be amazing if you could talk to your group and send me a flat sensor of 1 x1 m. Do you need some kind of guarantee that i just use it for this art piece? thank you so much for your support that is really great, to me this way of thinking about the body and pain is very important for my work. the material arrived, i was the week not in the studio so i just saw it today!!! no i will start thinking about what to do, i’ll let you know about the steps, i am so exhibited what will happen.
that is amazing thank you so much, let's talk soon, i will be in Switzerland today and tomorrow but how would fit Wednesday for you? there i am free for the whole day, i am so excited!!!
Can we talk tomorrow? I am sitting in a train since two hours, it stops because of a police operation ....any time would be good for me tomorrow.
The German government invites me to come to Washington with them for a celebration of the German year in America. This will be 3-4th October. I just wonder if you are around at the 5th I could come over to Baltimore and perhaps have a look at the lab and the things you are doing?sorry late replay i was waiting for my time table for the next days. I am really sad to say that i am not allowed to leave the delegation, because of safety reasons :-/ so i cannot come over to Baltimore, but i am thinking about coming in the end of November, because i really want to see the lab and what are you doing.
i am thinking about my idea of the whole room covert with your skin material and did some test, it works really well and now i am very sure that the piece works out. So i want to ask you if it is possible to get really a lot of the material, to cover the room. of course we can find a way of expenses and of course i will mention were the material comes from in the text and catalog. what do you think, would that possible?
great then i would say we should have 5 edition for selling and for the exhibition we should leave that open right? i would add the number and sign, and will sent the paper to you?
Would it be possible to meet at 2pm tomorrow as well, I just then will have a little more time.
for our show in January we are planning now with the new series called „disruption“, the measures will follow asap. the sculptures with photographies called „mork“ some of the gliedermensch and avatar examples are below and two mirrors also animation below. for the fair in January we are thinking about a video: https://vimeo.com/258986583 https://vimeo.com/258984285 https://vimeo.com/252352447 and the concert mork or another one depending which one we don’t need in the gallery. i just forget to ask how we deal with the production costs for the show?
Düsseldorf was nice, how was it for you, went everything well? the piece Jean and Marina took is: Avatar 30 2016 Inkjetprint
For the show in January we got the sculpture and photo pieces in my studio, ready to take off, the new series are not produced jet. I can arrange that next week then it takes 3 weeks, so we could have a transport this year in December or in January next year, as you like. for me both is good, in January i got the big show at the Sprengel Museum Hannover (29.1 opening) and two group shows one at Museum Morsbroich Leverkusen(27.1 opening) and the other at Kunsthalle Emden (26.1 opening). i have just two questions, how do we handle the production costs of the new pieces? and for the sculptures we need bases, shall i bring them or do you got some we could use? it is coming per WeTransfer, takes a bit, sitting in the train to Munich …...
do you have time for a call today? i got some things and questions :-) the base station are not tracking properly sometimes it works and sometimes not. glasses as well, but you can hear what they are talking, the mannequins need to sit on the table i sent you the sketches of the chairs and the table the table is not a glass table it is out of linoleum can we change that in the vr? i am available the whole day. 
i hope you are very well, i have some question the Sprengel museum was asking me about the vr equipment. they are planning the show the piece on three different places in the museum, so is it possible to get the equipment for the installations? and is there anything they have to know before, like sharing the equipment or something else? yes one headset per table ist perfect, the exhibition will end in Juli. here are the plans, i marked in the second one were the pieces will be. two of them will be in the exhibition and the third one should be open the exhibition directly in the entrance of the museum i don’t have plans for this space.
i hope you had a great Christmas and now a great start in 2019. All the best for this year.
Can you sent me the invitation for the show, ich would like to sent this to some people. 
Happy 2019 to you too!!!!! Yes I talked to Knab, they are coming next week on Thursday, so we are good there!! I am so excited for the exhibition!!! 
Thank you for the day, it was great and I am so looking for the piece! I will sent you footage asap! It is perfect when you make a press package.For Art Basel i‘ll let you know when we are clear with them should be next month. 
it was a great Day yesterday, thank you for that. Here are the cost of the table and seats for the piece. And i thought about your idea to do another piece when we finished, i think that would be great, if you like i would sent an idea after all the openings of the next weeks. i hope you can come to the show in Hannover on the 29th.
thank you, for you a great new year as well. I can send the works to my gallery in Berlin so you can pick them up there. this would be Wentrup gallery. if that is ok for you i choose 6 of the heads, sent them to the gallery and put you in contact with them?
thank you for your mail and your invitation, the project sound very interesting and i would be happy to be part of it. I have one question, the series heads got 55 pieces how many of them do you need? the series is shown before at the Kunsthalle Emden and the Kunstmuseum Rathingen in Germany so i have to plan a little bit how many of them are free at the time of the festival. perhaps it is a little bit easy for you to say that but perhaps you got an idea… and i will be in Los Angeles at that time next year so i would connect you with my assistant as well who will be organising everything next year, if this is ok for you.
the footage is coming, sorry that is takes so long. i thought about having some footage of the installation of the show in Hannover as well, in the studio it is more or less sitting on the computer the show could be more interesting what do you think? Did you have contact with the museum because of the installation of the piece. are you sending the equipment directly to the museum and do i have to know anything for the installation. i am so exhibited to see the piece there.
i hope you are well and everything is going well. Can you already sent me the piece? I have to go to Brussels on Sunday and after that to Hanover to install the show on Tuesday, so i won’t be at the computer the next week. I think it would be great if I can see the piece before the show just in case. Perhaps i can see it on the computer? Would that possible.
thank you for your request. I know your project and think it is really great. of course it is a pleasure to be part of it. i am recently very busy with some shows coming up the next two weeks, but afterwards i will sent you an image.
i put the titles in the images ;-) thank you for today, i am very happy with the show and looking forward Thursday!!!
amazing thank you so much!!! i will check this today i am already on my way to Hannover, do you know if anything is ok with the equipment for the museum? i did’t hear something from Irene. Sorry to bother you again but I really need to know how and when we install the piece next week. Can you please tell me when we can do that? Monday is press conference at 11 and Tuesday is the opening in the evening :)
The opening went really well and everybody loves the piece, it was great. My Galerist just as me if it would be ok if he can offer a friend working at Zabludowicz Collection to show the piece, he is planning a VR show. Is that ok for you? Can I put you in contact?
It was nice to meet you in Hannover. Let me know when you in the Rhineland, so we can have a coffee some time.
The week was great, really good opening!!! We can catch up tomorrow anytime or on Thursday, what would be better for you?
i hope this email finds you well, i am an artist from Germany and coming to Tel Aviv quite spontaneous tomorrow for some days. I would love to bring my new catalogue to the Gallery. Irit told be that she is in Switzerland. Would it be ok for you if i step by on Friday morning?
Thanks a lot!!! It would be great to meet you and talk to you. When in May would the conference be. I am moving to Los Angeles next month for the fellowship of villa aurora but will come back in May anyway for some days. So I can return to Frankfurt for the conference, that would be perfect. If I have the dates I can arrange my flights.
the German TV Channel ZDF is planning to show my exhibition at the Sprengel Museum in their digital Kunsthalle and it is possible to show VR-pieces and also the mobile version. They want to reduce the show of the Museum a little bit, they want to have only four rooms :-) so one could be aporias, what do you think? https://digitalekunsthalle.zdf.de/index.html the channel will produce this exhibition or film next week, because i will go to Los Angeles by the end of this month. i hope you are well. I am on my way to Hannover again, the German tv channel ZDF build a digital museum and invited me to show my exhibition of the Sprengel museum in this museum as well, it is a completely different ways to think about the pieces we will see what comes out of it. I just saw this residency which sound really interesting and was wondering if you have a contact to them and can put a good word in for me :-)
I hope you are well and in New York the spring is coming now :) I am recently preparing my stay in Los Angeles for the next three months and really looking forward to! Here in Germany my Frist institutional solo exhibition at the Sprengel Museum is going really well and will now shown in the first digital Kunsthalle of the German tv Channel zdf and is going afterwards to the Ludwig forum in Aachen where I will add a new installation as well. So very exciting times right now. For the Easter holidays I will come to New York from April 15th to the 22nd and just wonder if you are around and have time for a coffee?
