51
closely tied to the corporeal and its elimination is the history of political art. in the early nineteenth century, francisco de goya showed, in his print series the disasters of war, the inhuman cruelty with which the bodies of political opponents were tortured, mutilated, and finally done away with. a good century later, in 1937, pablo picasso created the best-known antiwar painting of the twentieth century in the monumental guernica. his direct reaction to the destruction of the old basque capital by a german air squadron, in the course of which several hundred people were killed. the paintings continuing validity and timeless resonance in the twenty-first century was apparent in february 2003, when the tapestry copy hanging in the united nations headquarters in new york was covered up while colin powell, us secretary of state at the time, and hans blix, head of the unmovic weapons inspectors, told the international media of their strategies for a possible war against iraq. it was deemed unfitting that their remarks should be made in front of the antiwar painting, with its shrieking victims, so it—and the victims mutilated bodies—were summarily hidden beneath a veil of blue fabric bearing the un symbol. thus the bodies of the victims of war were done away with this time indirectly for a second time.
particularly after 1950, against the background of world war ii, the cold war, and other military conflicts worldwide, the spectrum of politically motivated art was constantly expanding, with the killed or wounded victims the focus of most portrayals. susan sontag observed that the vietnam war, the first to be witnessed day after day by television cam eras, introduced to the home front new tele-intimacy with death and destruction, while artists, for instance martha rosler from the us, created works that used collage techniques to drag the bodies of vietnam war victims pictorially right into the middle of the undamaged world of western consumer-citizens. death is a master from germany is a much-quoted thought from paul celans todesfuge death fugue. also as regards poison gas, this is sadly true. since the start of the twentieth century, german scientists and german businesses have vied with one another in developing this chemical warfare agent. the chemist fritz haber was among those on the german side responsible for poison gas development and for its first use in combat operations. born in breslau, haber joined the staff of the technische hochschule karlsruhe university of applied sciences in 1894, ultimately becoming professor of physical chemistry and electrochemistry before, in 1911, taking on the directorship of the kaiser-wilhelm-institut für physikalische chemie und elektrochemie in berlin. there, after the outbreak of world war i, he began to research chlorine gas. and it was in part the introduction of poison gas that made the rapid development of aerial reconnaissance necessary as a response, for only from the air could the network of trenches containing the bulk of the enemy fighting strength be monitored and the positions of artillery batteries and poison gas projectors located.this last aspect in particular made aerial reconnaissance highly necessary during world war i.
the first use of poison gas on germanys western front in 1915 highlighted a fundamental change in the strategy of warfare, which, according to peter sloterdijk, consisted in targeting no longer the body, but the enemys environment. and so the discover y of the environment took place in the trenches of world war i. soldiers on both sides had rendered themselves so inaccessible to the bullets and explosives intended for them that the problem of atmospheric war could not but become pressing. although the use of poison gas was outlawed throughout the world in 1925 under the geneva protocol, many nations have not been deterred from repeatedly making use of this barbarous weapon. and over the decades, german firms made good money from dealing in death. for example, the poison gas sarin was developed in germany by i.g. farben and, just like the mustard gas that haber had developed, used to kill insects and then, during world war ii, also employed as an invisible weapon against humans. in general, most antiwar art is concerned with criticizing actions and objects, or topics, on a theoretical-visual level, that is, with representing a range of disasters and problems in pictorial form and considering them critically in the process. there are only a few artists who in their artworks or installations make use of the objects and materials of war and hence death itself. one unusual exception is louisa clements installation transformationsschnitt transformation section, 2015. for this, which in formal terms looks like a hybrid of minimal and land art, she has used the poison gas sarin, one of the weapons used in syria by the dictator assad against his own people—not the gas actually used in that civil war, but some that was first delivered to syria and subsequently rendered harmless by the un. some 600 tons of chemicals that could be used to make poison gas were confiscated from the assad regime and then rendered harmless aboard the us special-purpose ship mv cape ray.
finally the deadly makeup of the gas was destroyed in special ovens in germany at over 1,300 degrees centigrade and melted down into glass. these gleaming brown-black chunks of glass that would otherwise have been used in road-building were discovered by clement and used for her art. for this installation, which is variable in form, she has hitherto used some 8 tons of the material, most of it dispassionately set out in abstract geometric arrangements. the lumps of glass, varying greatly in size and many of them bulky, with jagged, broken edges, are almost innocently spread out before the onlooker. one could take them for precious relics of some exotic culture, because of the materials unusual look and because the multitude of pieces lie in no particular conjunction with one another, and so give no clue to the possible purpose of the original solid mass. it is fundamentally a very aesthetic presentation—provided that knowledge of the once deadly gases incorporated, like radioactive waste, into molten glass does not resurrect memories of the wealth of horrid images of the victims forever in the media. the massive physical presence of the lumps of glass makes the strongest possible contrast to the obliterated corpses of those who fell victim to the gas. but alongside such political aspects, what transformationsschnitt is taking for its theme is also, and above all, the presence and yet simultaneous absence of the physical. this artistic strategy runs through clements work like a scarlet thread, and so it is detectable in fracture 2014, head 2014 15, and avatar 2016. the technology–humanity thematic complex is something i see rather politically. above all i find disembodiment fascinating and suspenseful, and i attack it in my work, says clement. because of its totality, the absence of bodies literally meaning the non-presence of human individuals, for example in the photographic series on ones way 2013, is very clearly an important theme in clements work. in the skillful artistic presentation of this absence can be seen one of her works great strengths. the apparent contradiction between presence and absence is also evident at another level in photographs of objects derived from warfare, or at any rate the use of force, as, for instance, in the series weapon 2017. among these are photographs of weapon cases that in their cropped sectionality appear almost abstract. because of their close-up non-representationalism, their purpose is almost unfathomable. in contrast to goyas drastic portrayals, showing wars hanged and mutilated victims, today it would be superfluous for art to take up the horror-story documentarism of the press or the internet-spread flood of atrocity images, or to emu late their stress on savagery. for most people, the real events of war are not imaginable. they are every bit as abstract as clements transformationsschnitt with is poison gas rendered harmless or the representations of weapon cases. and even today, when the news media ply us so frequently with so many images of death and terror, murder and destruction, the suffering of those directly afflicted still remains every bit as unimaginable.
in her work, clement does not fall for the simple pictorial rhetoric of explicitly representing real facts. she does not work with imagery downloaded from war zones and depictions of the dead and injured. the absence of weapons in the storage modules photographed, along with the absence of the physical contents of the gun cases, nevertheless has a drastic effect, both via the aestheticism of the obscene glossy displays and via the inherent associations of those weapons potential uses. clements latest installation takes as its theme physicality and its ambivalent existence between presence and absence. in schmerzraum space of distress, 2018, she has created a walk-in environment dimensioned 360 cm high, 450 cm long, and 125 cm wide. the walls of the room are completely covered with a high-tech fabric, a so-called e-dermis. this fabric, which conducts electrical impulses, was developed by johns hopkins university in baltimore to enable wearers of prostheses to experience once again sensations of touch and pain in their missing extremities.
on the one hand, the oblong, corridor-like spatial installation is completely empty. on the other, the person who enters is surrounded as though in skin by some twenty-one bodies, assuming that the e-dermis is mimicking human skin. even though the gray material has a very technical feel, it creates an almost oppressive sensation when imagining the fabric translated into human skin and corresponding bodies. the bodies i.e., the material may be touched, which triggers the transmission of a purely hypothetical electrical stimulus. however, this provides no feedback, and it is irrelevant whether or not the entrant knows that their touch is ineffective, because the artist is primarily concerned with the increasing discrepancy between the actions of real bodies i.e., individuals in a real world—whatever is meant by that—and the impact of the actions of
actual individuals in a digital, and hence virtual, world. due to the breakneck pace of development of the digital world, fields of action and areas of operation are constantly expanding, and the boundary between illusion and reality is becoming more and more blurred. where the elimination of the physical aspect of military operations mentioned above is concerned, there is a real-life example in the problem of a playstation mentality in the operating personnel controlling combat drones—to some extent armed conflicts are increasingly turning into a kind of real video game. here, real bodies i.e., real people are eliminated via digital remote control. for the operator, the effects of individual action are thus virtualized and trivialized —in the starkest contrast to the real effects on real people being killed or injured.
in tackling human interaction and social functioning in an increasingly digital world, clements work is addressing a topic as up-to-date as it is important. on the one hand, we live and communicate more and more digitally, ergo incorporeally, and many times a day we can or must legitimize ourselves by means of codes and passwords. on the other, the human body is increasingly being observed and measured. however, the more we act digitally, the more important individual-physical evaluation becomes. so, for example, it is now almost impossible to travel without the validation of biometric data, since biometrics decide identity. those who cannot identify themselves by means of their biometric attributes are stigmatized and effectively expatriated, as a recent report on an indian registration communication, we are or will become increasingly dependent on the body and its integrity. in order to evaluate identity-confirming data, more and more parts of the body or biometric characteristics are called upon. ranging from simple fingerprints to irises, facial recognition to dna and even voice. however, the more verification strategies by means of biometric data are developed, the more opportunities for manipulating this data multiply catchphrase: deepfakes. so, for example, it is no problem to almost authentically reproduce an individual human voice.
another of clements series has sprung from this preoccupation with biometric data and also makes play with the strategy of a certain decorporealization and with the presenceabsence paradox: heads 2014  15. the starting point was the failed attempt to create a biometrically correct passport photo then there arose questions like when do i fit the standardization that this kind of photo demands, and when dont i, what does that sort of fitting actually mean, and what has that got to do with society in the course of this clash of meanings, clement noticed the faceless mannequin heads, which she ultimately portrayed with the smartphone camera. she subsequently framed each individual head in the resulting fifty-part series as tightly as possible. one could read these heads as a contemporary reinterpretation of gerhard richters photorealistically paint ed 48 portraits 1971 72 of important figures of the twentieth century. whereas richter has portrayed only men, clement provides beings stripped of identity, bereft of any biometric traits, that could even begin to be used to establish what sort of personalities these are. the mannequin heads, with their avatar-like quality and absence meaning presence stand for a social development that at least partly eliminates physical appearance as the most immanent metaphor for what is human. state or official institutions do still call upon the human body to establish and monitor identity whenever possible, but that will not halt the trend toward disembodiment. where will our society be going when we are completely digital in a series like heads, this is the question that louisa clement asks of us as viewers. with a new virtual reality work underway, she will go on delving into the thematic complex of the physical and the artistic. we are all agog
kunst  denker contemporary louisa clement one step ahead moving backwards 11. january   17. april 2016 primate of color and shape about the series heads by louisa clement what is the most popular camera in the world its not a leica nor a canon, nikon nor olympus, but it is the iphone 6    at least that  is what apple is claiming on its website world gallery where you can find photos by iphone users along with tips and tricks for better photography. for example, gabby k. added a picture of a person on a stone, which protrudes from a lake somewhere in the federal state of washington. the special effect of the image is explained as follows. soft light coupled with focus on reflections gives photos often a dreamy, ethereal quality. on this particular picture the composition makes it seem almost as if the person is floating. a surreal cactus landscape immersed in the evening light of phoenix achieves its appeal, so we read, by a restricted palette of reds and oranges. a black and white picture of raindrops sent in by paul o. could originate from the 1950s school of subjective photography.  even an everyday motif, like drops of water on a hood, can be captured from a unique perspective and look fascinating, the website does not seem to be focused on historic reference but rather on photographic effects, which is not surprising, after all, its also about the marketing of apps and accessories.
although louisa clement uses an iphone for her photos, this much is clear. her images hardly count to the favorites of the world gallerys editorial board. between the dramatic natural spectacles, breathtaking dynamic city scenes and exotic animal photographs, her works would be lonely foreign bodies among them   this is not because the artist is using the outdated iphone5 but rather, because her paintings are deliberately missing everything spectacular and sensational, dreamy and fascinating, because clement concentrates entirely on the outlying everyday things.
the 25 part series on ones way 2012 2013, for example, has been created during different train trips. the pictures show details of seats, windows, doorsteps of compartments or the pattern of the floor   details you only notice through boredom on a long journey. the objects in the photos are easy to identify but clement works with perspectives and post-production so that moments of reality become geometrically abstract compositions. the use of delicate pastel shades also shows the artists sensitivity to colors, as clement comes from the art of painting and later found her love for photography.
her new project heads also uses the iphone5. the 50 part series gathers 50 heads of mannequins that clement has photographed in passing on the shelves of fashion stores in several european cities. she then printed the pictures in original size, framed them with almost no free space around the subject and hanged them like a frieze.  it is not immediately clear to the viewer that the heads belong to mannequins. facial features, nor noses, mouths and eyes can be discerned in the series, just as haircuts, fashionable hats or towels. instead, one can observe long oval forms, close in shape but still different from one another. black and white objects with strong shadows on the one hand, and complicated mirror reflections and a tangle of mysterious points of light on the other. some images are almost two-colored   orange and blue or red and black, with other complex curves of blue, red and brown tones. from time to time lines of seams or joints are visible, dividing the forms even more. some are more tapered and pointy than others. the surfaces vary depending on the material of the dolls, from quite smooth, to slightly uneven, to rough. cracks and scratches add a number of additional nuances. since modernism, mannequins fascinated photographers such as umbo, karl schenker and werner rohde as well as artists of surrealism and new objectivity. mostly they were concerned with the vitalization of dead mass products, the fetishization of objects true and false desire, the blurring of the boundaries between ideal and natural beauty.
in comparison, the photos by clement mannequins do not exhibit these aspects of the uncanny and disturbing. in order to be as versatile as possible in the global markets, todays mannequins cannot be assigned to a specific image of women anymore. as can be seen in the succession of heads, the heads of the figures are sexless and so stylized that they are generally neutral ciphers for the human head.
the former power of seduction of female art turns to the be at times cool, exuberant aesthetics of pictorial abstraction. but the emphasis on pure artistic beauty proves to be tricky. for indeed it is possible that the abolition of human traits seen as evil bitter comment on the absolutizing of the economy in politics and business. the image of man is vanishing from clements photos exactly as it is also disappearing from the bare figures on balance sheets of a sales and profit oriented social order.
in an interview, florian ebner, head of the photographic collection of the folkwang museum in essen and this years curator of the german pavilion at the venice biennale, recently summarized the main themes of photography in recent decades. while in the 1980s the discussion about the panel painting dominated the photographic discourse, today it is about the circulation of the images or photos themselves.
against this background, the series heads and also on ones way could be understood as a confrontation with art, in this case not with the strategies of history paintings   narration and overpowering   to which clements teacher andreas gursky takes, but with the still life.
the coloristic contrasts and shape in her work accents this. although the use of todays digital techniques as defined by ebner, could be understood as a confrontation with the ubiquity of the photographic. moreover, clement can be associated with a further photographic tradition that ebner has not mentioned in the conversation, namely the conceptual art of the 1960s and 1970s that began the inclusion of photography in the history of art. that louisa clement appeals to the conceptual art, is especially clear regarding her work in completed series.
for the artists who discovered photography at the beginning of the 1960s had untapped opportunities in the medium or, as jan dibbets said in retrospect. in those days photography was regarded as a completely useless medium, and if it was used, then only for the documentation of things.  while dibbets was interested in the perspective characteristics of the photograph, a decade later, hans-peter feldmann was working on the discrepancy of what we know from an image and what we see in it, e.g. when he photographed car radios, while good music was playing. feldmanns casualness corresponds with clements approach in which it is not about the outstanding frame, but the complex potential of form and color, which is hidden behind the supposedly laconic excerpts of our reality.
louisa clements artistic education was primarily as a photographer, but her activity has not been confined to classical photography, at least not since she created her mirror objects in 2015. in this analysis of individual groups of photographic works, i shall seek to show how the artist has exhausted a limited, medium-specific concept of the two-dimensional photograph, and at times transformed it, and how this is the almost inevitable upshot of the contemporary sociopolitical questioning that her approach involves.
let us begin with an apparently peripheral phenomenon. even if, in the context of discussion of photography, it is tempting to pass over the question of pictorial content in favor of clarifying technical development, there is nonetheless one technical detail that should be covered first—because it is the hallmark of the artists thoroughgoing conceptual approach. in contrast to many well-known photographers hiroshi sugimoto, for example who use a nineteenth-century plate camera, clement employs not a large-format camera for high-resolution images but the camera on her smartphone, thus utilizing an everyday object to produce art. this sort of contemporaneity is already discernible in her on ones way series produced in 2012 13. she shows cut-out-like details of railway train interiors. with these abstracted views—not initially identifiable, but then becoming perceptible for what they are—we can talk of a transformation of the visual experience of everyday things. sven beckstette rightly draws attention to the way that clement here has chosen perspectives and then edited the images in such a way that the details drawn from known reality dissolve into geometric, abstract compositions. and in the delicate pastel shades that reveal not only the artists sensitivity to color but also how clements development started in painting before moving on to photography. this painterly look, not at all uncommon in modern photographic history, is emphasized by the use of the smartphone camera and the resulting shallow depth of field of the picture. in this connection, it is also important to recognize that clements photos are generally not the products of a quick, spontaneous act of image formation. it is particularly true of the early group of works on ones way that the image draws the viewer into contemplative consideration. this engagement with technology and its function would not change in the years that followed.
in looking at the subsequent works, it is important to keep in mind that clement essentially operates in thematic groups or series of works. this is emphasized in an assertion from early 2018. my approach is as much conceptual as visual. i see my output as a network, made up of series and works, that grows denser with each item and traces an ever-deepening picture of our times.
this becomes apparent in the following fifty-five-part series head 2014  15, which does not simply mark a crux in clements work at the thematic level. the heads depicted are those of shop-window mannequins. with these figures, determined above all by their arrangement and ordering, we are dealing with faceless apparitions, largely deindividualized and hence also sexless: no more than allusions to human beings. all the same, complete uniformity is fended off with various different colors, shapes, and outer surfaces of the objects, and with the startling variety of image sizes, so that one really can talk of anthropomorphic residues. these allusions to human appearances generate an emotional unease in the observer that strongly recalls the surreal tradition of the doll photographs of hans bellmer 1902 1975.
fundamental to clements contemporary approach here is a serial presentation, and one that concentrates exclusively on the head. precisely because of this, the sightless heads can ultimately be seen as the logical outcome of a society fixated on outward appearances. here it becomes clear that human beings themselves have turned into goods—cost factors and asset values—and so the thematic approach of using shop-window mannequins is logical. this is continued in clements next series, fracture 2014. here our attention is directed not to the heads of the mannequins but to their arms and hands. and fracture is not in the strictest sense a series, in that its pictorial organization is not focused on the central vertical axis, for the examination of various details brings in changing groupings, some of them seemingly ornamental. and switching between portrait and landscape formats has the same effect.
at this point, a short, more general digression on the photographic image seems appropriate. a classical conception of the medium, longheld and still accepted in everyday usage in the medium today, takes the photograph as a depiction or reflection of reality. but artistic photography cannot restrict itself to such a concept and, on the contrary, in some of its manifestations appropriation art, for example diverges so far from it that realitys reflection is reflected once again. but one cannot grasp clements approach through such a simple dichotomy, for it calls into question the conventional understanding of reality. it is also concerned with content, and only after that with the medium. since head clement has been concentrating primarily on the theme of the body and the inter linked question of the boundaries of what is human. where is the beginning of the artificial, and where does the idea of the human, its nature, cease
how are the shifts and changes in the human, the integration of artificial elements into human beings, to be comprehended what social consequences result, or what conceptions of man and of power are bound up in these changes artificial interventions in the supposed nature of humans are not actually at all new. they have long been everyday occurrences, as we can see from a glance at, among many other things, our dentition, with is crowns and ultimate dental implants. and prostheses have been used for centuries to alleviate limitations on bodily mobility. the artificial heart since 1969 is as little of an exotic one-off as the insulin pump for diabetics since the 1990s, and it would not be difficult to list more examples. in recent years, though, interventions in the human body by technology and medicine have taken on a new quality, and as a result the question of the boundaries of the human has acquired an alarming prominence. in its extreme forms, or in visionary concepts, the classical human–machine opposition has been morphed into a hybrid form that focuses attention on the question of where humanitys borders lie. the changes to the image of man that have been outlined can be fitted into the cultural-historical tradition of the search for a new man which began at the latest with the advent of christianity, reaching a preliminary peak in fascisms totalitarian utopia and the october revolution in russia, before, via a broad theoretical discussion, continuing in the current technical modification of the human as a disguised ideological practice. that art has contributed in many ways to the history of this reflection of human existence is well-known, at any rate in the modern age.
so how is the question of the altered image of the human that we have outlined articulated in the work of clement is her explicit artistic purpose to raise questions about the interpersonal and about contemporary political topics in her work5 after radicalizing deindividualized heads to monochrome surfaces in the portrait series in 2015—in the form of city-light advertisement placards following the generally accepted cmyk color model cyan, magenta, yellow, and black—and thus quitting the photographic medium as narrowly defined, in the same year she went on to alter the form of pictoriality in the plastic work transformationsschnitt transformation section, 2015. the intensified question of the image of humanity led clement, albeit with some difficulty, to give up photography.
in the head series, we can already see that photographic optics are coupled with various forms of abstraction that concentrate largely on the motif and on the elements of image size and image-capture technology. radicalization is apparent in further photographic works. the avatar group 2016 consists of large, strongly colored images. even an arthistorically ill-educated observer will not fail to see parallels with the dolls of oskar schlemmer 1888 1943. as so often happens, the reservoir of shattered utopias of modernism serves as a historical wrapper for the creativity of the contemporary artist.7 the emphasis in the fractures group on details and extracts, for example, is radicalized along with the avatars, so that the ever-changing composition hinders recognition of any reality beyond the image. at the same time, though, the seductive beauty of these sweeping, strongly colored forms on a black, seemingly placeless background creates an eerie effect, with the grouping of two or more figures suggesting a relationship of communication. it soon becomes clear that the anthropomorphic forms are not real people, but, once again, standing shop-window dummies. their smooth, shiny surfaces, however, only evoke imaginings of new humans. they fail to show reality itself. if in the avatar group the figures largely dominate, and their context or background is only recognizable in a few places in the form of black planes, then in the next group, gliedermenschen limb beings, 2017, things have changed. rather as in the fracture sequence, in these stretched-format images the concentration of motifs shifts away from the body and toward black arms and joints. the smoothness of their outer surfaces hints all the more at prostheses.
to put it in pathetical terms, the forms seem as though almost completely dehumanized, nothing more than casings, as though soot-blackened or doused in pitch—hunted, marked by fate, wounded, despairing. the extracted and cut-out-looking forms emerge entirely through sidelighting. the theme of living together appears in some pictures in the group, particularly in the enigmatic interaction of hands. following on from this, though even more clearly from the avatar sequence, a little later on clement developed the group not lost in you 2017, in which she deserted the medium of photography for short video loops. here a tight-fitting reddish or black glove bearing a striking ornamental pattern on a white ground interacts with the shop-window mannequins from avatar. in this confrontation with the moving hand, the figures—all at once seemingly lifeless—are slowly, now and then erotically, grasped and fondled. but how authentic, how human, is this moving hand is there a real human hand inside the glove, or is the scene digitally animated, thus making it just as dehumanized as the rather alluring and lovely figures, and thus in glossy-aesthetic mode, animated only by artificial life
for the viewer the question is left open, although the motion in the work is particularly unsettling. louisa clement has surely not yet pursued her artistic questions about the state of mankind and a contemporary comprehension of humanity to the very end. it is already becoming apparent that her work, both within and outside of the context of classical photographic images, is pressing on into a new sort of artistic image. this will involve interaction and communication with artificial humans. and this interaction will occur not physically but in a visual, even a virtual, space where artificial intelligence will help the robot to become a true counterpart. louisa clements art does not reflect this reality, for it is no longer clear which reality it is that we are living in. will this altered reality go hand in hand with a change in the idea of what is human
mixed realities, border crossing, a futuristic-seeming pictorial world first opens up in louisa clements series head 2014  15, with its enigmatic reflections on the surfaces of nonhuman heads with blurred contours. monochrome backgrounds intensify the feeling of a vague, undefined location but also herald attractive spaces of potential. to judge from the relationship between figure and space, clement relates on the one hand to early modernity, where the figure was already being used as an abstraction of the human body: as ist plastic representative. on the other hand, the unsettling quality that her paintings emanate can be traced chiefly to the style, which suggests a digitally processed image. the inanimate figures she chooses, as in head i 2014, pp.13ff. see fig. 1, function as alienated proxies and are stylized into icons in a digitized world that has spawned new cultural technologies, codes, and systems of thought. the featureless faces repeatedly appearing as sexless identification figures in a postindustrial, highly commercialized present generate an explosiveness in terms of humans as material and of the politics of body, origin, and power.
just as in the avatar series 2016 or gliedermenschen limb beings, 2017, pp. 26 31, mannequins from department store windows serve as a basic motif for reproduction via a smartphone camera, thus demonstrating the completely different conditions that creating a photographic image involves. in particular, clement reflects on the radically changed scope of the photographic medium. how its integration into mobile devices endowed with computer functions is more or less equivalent to a metamorphosis. user-friendly controls have made digital operation the norm, transforming our entire global communications culture. these crucial consequences for a contemporary concept of reality, and its effects on the world we live in, caused clement to question the fundamentals of her previous artistic work. clement took as her starting point the status quo of digital image production, and in her creations she not only raises the question of the extinction of analogue photography but also pursues the debate about the function of the image in the context of digitization. photography has become part of everyday communication and interaction, but what type of information is actually conveyed via the medium, and what interests are represented, is seldom scrutinized. clements approach, along with her studies at the düsseldorf academy, on the one hand, place her in the local tradition of pondering a media-mediated reality and, on the other, reflect completely new patterns of perception.
in her three groups of works already mentioned, the constructed images, similarly composed with their motif of anonymous human-shaped dummies, serve as the starting point for locating humans in a digital environment. the figures in the avatar series are made of monochrome fiberglass in soft pastel shades like pink, yellow, or green. two or three figures have always been arranged in a composition, and, due to the chosen viewpoint, only detail shots of the groups and their limbs can be seen. the largely androgynous bodies take center stage, and their trendy colorfulness, set against the retrospectively altered black background, evokes a resemblance to a motif borrowed from the commercial worlds of pop and advertising culture images. but the dummies are not conveying a sales-oriented message. rather, clement is reversing the meaning of the images. the substitute human is acting as a reflection not of reality but of its simulation.
nothing that advertises a mass-market product is detectable, which nullifies the viewers associations and assumptions. but at the same time this act leads to cultural strategies being laid bare. man himself is declared an identityless consumer object, and extinction of the subject is being proclaimed. ultimately, with her hyperdigital image aesthetic, achieved through complex lighting control and manipulative image editing, the artist is leading us into new areas of interaction. the title of the series, avatar, refers to a term that has become established since the 1990s for an artificial image of a human in the virtual world and in social media. it is a link to self-representation in the virtual world, but it raises a huge discrepancy with reality. clement turns her attention to precisely this contradiction and focuses on changing social techniques.
conscious and mindful perception is denied to human beings in the digital world and its social forums. hence, in the not lost in you series 2017, pp. 34 39 the former puppets are touched and palpated performatively with a real hand on a human body. this exemplifies the missing physical contact. in one of her earliest portrait series, clement had already made detail photographs of body parts covered with sometimes eye-catching clothing like leopard prints. but these images, resembling cutouts or clippings and aesthetically reminiscent of articles posted online, do not reveal the person depicted in their entirety. the works have titles such as liked 2013, fig. 2 and illustrate the play on absence despite presence. they reduce to absurdity the self-esteem derived from public recognition and the fetishizing of ones own appearance by means of the new technologies, and conversely they comment on the changed, fake body consciousness and self-embellishment.
in petite poucette, french philosopher michel serres introduced the concept of thumbelina. contact between ones own skin and the touchscreen fosters a connection between the virtual and real worlds. this moment becomes an iconic act that opens up new speculations about the relationship between man and machine. against a background of the dynamic development of new technologies and of a digital revolution, the growing together of body and technology is a highly controversial border line experience. out of this specific relationship between inside and outside, between self and environment, emerges an interplay that no longer seems to differentiate. clement addresses this phenomenon impressively in her new work schmerzraum space of distress, 2019, fig. 3.
in tune with the ever-advancing progress in science and technology and a pre dominantly computer-driven society, clement makes use of one of the most up-to-date medical achievements: e-dermis. this is an artificial electronic skin developed at johns hopkins university in baltimore for people with prostheses. its purpose is to restore feeling when they handle things—to give them back a sense of touch. the sensations of pain and pleasure, both unique characteristics of living beings, can be simulated here and made usable by artificial intelligence. clement papers a whole room with this artificial skin, thus once more creating a reversal of orderliness and conditions. this brings us up against the radical criteria and consequences involved in amalgamating current society and body technologies. the concept of being human is questioned and challenged.what are the consequences of outsourcing our consciousness what happens when computer technologies are implanted into the human organism these possibilities have figured in speculative visions of the future in literature or the cinema and have led to a separate philosophical genre posthumanism, but they have long since become reality.
louisa clement takes ethical self-doubt to a climax in her latest vr-arbeit vr work, 2019. here, the visitor encounters an artificial species—her invention of the gliedermensch—and receives, in conversation with the digital being, answers to his questions that, determined by an algorithm, are sometimes truthful and sometimes not. clements work relentlessly seeks to confront the question of human existence in the digital age. whether the outcome will be the conquest of man or the victory of humanity remains an open question.
the bombardment in the early hours of august 21, 2013, was different then all previous ones. the people in the rebel-controlled areas around the syrian capital of damascus heard a strange whistling sound before the rockets detonated. soon hundreds of people with breathing problems streamed into the makeshift hospitals, others were found dead in their houses, their faces still covered with the towels they tried to protect themselves with. those who survived the attack were short of breath and plagued by cramps. some had to be treated for five days with oxygen, water, and atropin, which stops the transmission of nerve signals and is used as antidote for nerve gas poisoning. one week after the attack many were still sick and breaking out in sweat, extremely weary and suffering from hallucinations.
the worst however, according to one patient, were the nightmares. activitists and the doctors without borders organisation informed later that at least 335 people had been killed. in an area east of damascus around 600 patients were admitted to a hospital, 125 of which died, among them 35 children. the sypmtoms: cramps, foaming in mouth and nose, reduced pupils   were clear indicators of nerve gas. the first victims had arrived alive, but many who were exposed to the gas for a longer period of time did not make it that far and were brought to the hospital after they had perished. thus far a report in welt from august 29, 2013.
researching the conflict in syria, in northern germany louisa clement discovered the remainders of the decomposition of chemical weapons. jet-black glass stones, in which   resembling pigments   the death-bringing potential is bound. multiple loads of these stones, which are otherwise for example used for building roads, are placed on two capital pedestals in three rows at a time in the exhibition space and combined with a sound installation based on original recordings of the cooling process.
both terrifying and beautiful, disturbingly dark, crystalline, stony and glassy they lie there   the material is sober and sublime at the same time, almost attractive and convenient if observed without the background described. but brutal, disgusting and cold once the story is known and one is aware of the special content. the retention of the glass stones in fuhrwerkswaage kunstraum and the almost geometrically straight and sacred meaning of their deeply opaque materiality and history shock and make speechless. how should one react   what reaction does such a work demand lets try a detour, as they remind me spontaneously of the works of land art, of the works of richard long and robert smithson.
a line made by walking was created in england in 1967 and marks the begin of the artistic trails of richard long, which he inscribes in the grass while walking up and down in a straight line and documents photographically. besides the circle form, which manifests in longs work early on, here he constructs the line of his proverbial work mass x distance x time, visible as trace of time.
walking distance is always time distance as well and everyone finds it fascinating how trails and then routes are established, how grass and vegetation overall are displaced over time. many people choose an efficient and rational, normally the shortest route between two points, a line which remains visible after a while   like ant trail in the forest.
longs sculptures are made visible in nature through a plot process, through the physical employment of walking a route. the day  and week-long walks in england, in ireland, in the alps, the himalayas or in the deserts of africa and australia which followed his first line everywhere in the world, manifest themselves as artistic exploration and document the physical presence and individual time-and-space-experience of the artist. for the artist, the more human aspect of the work is made visible by the temporary arrangement of stones, as the limited presence hints at the reality and transcience of human life. sculptures, installations, and since 1981 also wall works are created which are not placed in the exterior, but through their materiality and arrangement are still connected to the mentioned landmarks.
a short detour, last monday it became known that the americans are now turning the war screw in vietnam up another notch, they used poison gas against the guerilla. american and vietnamese troops have used poison gas against the vietcong multiple time associated press reports from saigon. different non-lethal irritant gases were tested in the areas of second and third corps. though us-spokespeople said that gas temporarily disabling an opponent is a more humane weapon than a bomb or a bullet, the gas-story earned the us the worst press of the vietnam war so far. the americans have handed the communists the perfect propaganda weapon, the daily mail in london stated. radio peking raged. the usage of poison gas by the american bandits in south vietnam proves their complete disregard of the elemental principles of humanity and shows them as fascist cannibals. ... in reality global opinion  has fallen prey to the gas trauma of world war i, which led to the banishment of all gas weapons by the geneva poison gas convention in 1925. the gas-taboo had only been broken three times since then: by the japanese in china, the italians in abyssinia and   according to inofficial reports   the egyptians in yemen. from: der spiegel 141965, freie jagd, 31.03.1965
this leads me to the second land art artist robert smithson and his sucessor sam durant, who at the same time developed his theory of entropy, of sites and non-sites, crystalline forms, mirrors, soil and trees etc. in the us. what fascinates to this day, more than any other land art artists, is his new definition of existing conditions using different viewpoints. and insofar 1970s partially buried woodshed at the kent state university in ohio is a remarkable piece of work. robert smithson conceived and executed this work during a week-long guest residence in january 1970. clay was heaped upon a wodden shed by a digger until it collapsed. years later it burned completely. and again 20 years later sam durant enters the game, who   given the title partially buried 1960s70s dystopia revealed mick jagger at altamont  utopia reflected wavy gravy at woodstock   explores the utopian and dystopian moment brought about by the two music festivals.
durants paralel of this symbolic-historian comparison follows the idea of simpson to not only remember the students who were killed at kent state during the vietnam protest, but also touches the many statements regarding the entropy of the 1960s and 70s, when the world was confronted with change   and durant includes sound, that is music, in his wood shed sculpture.
lets return to louisa clements installation. the comparison with land art might be born of a whim, but opens the problematic field of a sculpture that has both a political and aesthetic impact. space, time, form, content, only these four aspects determine our perception and experience of art. what upon first glance is a sober arrangement of broken glass stones, discloses a horrible secret once the material and context is laid bare. insofar it is no longer surprising that louisa clement uses sculptural methods, even sound in this installation as it is always a special line of argument to question ones preferred material by using a new one   and here photography and medial images in general as evidence  and indicator-framework with a space installation. what we see and hear is the shocking rigidity of an entropic process. entropy as model for our society.
sarin, richard long, robert smithson, sam durant and louisa clement therefore exist in a genealogy of a spatial, political time stamping level, which contents of materiality always interact with and express a political consequence or motivation of action. i find it extraordinary that louisa clement, whose work methods of photographical observation of her surroundings and quotidian always had a constant, with this radical sculptural statement phrases a new view, a haptic dimension in the virtual space of possibility that is everyday warfare. many thanks for this even if we are momentarily speechless in the face of the contemporary reality of a flood of refugees and refugee politics in europe.
the invasion of reality into the imaginary does not happen in our art spaces, but radically politically in our immediate surroundings. here and now. we should have a voice and spirit that brings cause and effect in a different context then the one of knowledge and power. this correlation as symbolical construct creates an awareness for strangeness, for the other, and it creates energy. energy which is not wasted. entropy made visible.r. smithson, 1973
