since i have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work i needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way. i have no idea if that is common or not.
actually there no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
i am interested in avatars, as the digital identity of a human being, something which does not have a physical body. identity and humanity are two quite contested frames. to me, as an artist, it is important to include a contemporary feeling of these terms in my work.
i didn't get the images can you sent them to me again? oh and here some images of my recent show in berlin opened last week.
i didn’t choose to become a photographer, i am an artist. but of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized. at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an "open class" (freie kunst), which is not explicitly a photography class. the focus in gursky’s teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
he forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually.
the human body is the smallest room you as an individual has to deal with. this room is set in the space around you. i am trying to trying to find the line between being inside of this room and outside, what is impact you have on the outside and of other individuals. i choose the present and the absent of the body because i think this is one of the most changing and stabile topics at the same time in our society at the same time.
Every young person should be trained to think that there is something more important than creating an art work in their life.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books. here some ideas of inspiration and what the roboter and ai will do or better what i would think would be amazing.
kunstakademie düsseldorf is where bernd and hilla becher led a class (just like gursky today) and established what became the so-called becher or düsseldorf photo school. in their class were artists like laurenz berges, andreas gursky, candida höfer, axel hütte, thomas ruff, jörg sasse, thomas struth, so it is obviously one of the best places to study if your work has anything to do with photography. the exchange with them is very frequent, not only in the academy but also in daily life as well.
also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human, sound strange but this is floating a lot.
If I have an idea in mind in mind in mind a content for an art piece i am searching for the strongest medium to form that content.
what exactly does it do to me and how much is this copy me. for me, its a lot about splitting off and approaching ones own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
I want to ask you if you want to work with that piece. I think it is hard to handle but i am sure we can do that and it will be really a new step, but could be a bit forcing.
As a result, human-machine interaction has been transformed into a hybrid form that focuses on the question of where human borders lie.
"For the girl who is the artist, to do the work and what happens will it feel for her to be part of her work?
you know a conversation is related to persons, so to human beings, to feelings, experiences, to the subconscious and to so much more, so it is about giving something and getting something back.
gursky taught me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics I was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece?
i would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention. see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
you can use my work, i think it looks really great!!! thank you so much for choosing my image that is a big honour for me in that huge context. can you send me some invitations when they are printed?
real bodies (i.e., real people) are eliminated via (digital) remote control. for the operator, the effects of individual action are thus virtualized and trivialized in the starkest contrast to the real effects on real people being killed or injured.
The project was created for the show by you. I like your projects. I just wrote the pitch.
the medium is always related to the content of the work, so i’m always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with. there is not really one medium i prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end.
i see my work more and more questioning the world and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided into series and pieces as a part of the whole thing.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
i prepared the ai with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. that was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with.
conversations she has when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, changes with and absorbs the influences of the world. the possibility that it completely changes i find very exciting because i also do not know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me. for me, it's a lot about splitting off and approaching one's own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books. this work grew out of the question of whether a conversation is a real conversation when you have it with a bot, and not with a human being.
I am an creative person, inspirations are the daily life. I experience from that as newspapers articles, researches and books.
"Avatar" is a digital identity, as I am dealing a lot with communication and digital communication in my work, mostly the question how the way of communication affected us and what is the meaning of the way we use to communicate. to make situation of communication visual i used mannequins, because the avatar is actually nothing really visual for me. i decided to use mannequins because i want to have the questions i am dealing with in my work generalized and not connected to one special person
