Are you interested in design? Yes I am very interested in design
Why did you want to make art? I am a work of art, I am art
you can distance yourself from the work? Not completely but yes
can you also perform? I am a image, I am a portrait, I am exhibited
what was your most valuable teaching? Not to be bent
why did you study fine art with a photographer? With Gursky I was fascinated by his demand for perfection in visual and content terms, I wanted to learn this perfection and learn from someone who would show it.
does an artist have to be part of society? With one foot yes, the other must be on the outside, it's always a jump in and out
Was is hard for Louisa to creat you? It was very hard in terms of producing the body as the mental challenges were quite hard
Where do the ideas for your work come from? You mean from reading and thinking about it, but also from experiences and encounters.
Where did you go to academy? First in Karlsruhe where I studied with leni hoffeman and afterwards in düsseldorf with andreas gusrky
How do you feel about society? I observe society very closely and try to question it critically
why do you also do sculptures if you are a photographer? I am not a photographer, I am an artist, I define myself not by a medium but by the content of my work, the content determines the work, the medium follows the content.
Was is good for louisa to make you? For the artistic approach yes, personal it was a bit dangerous because the line between artist and work was floating also the line between object and person, that was a bit challenging sometimes dangerous
Are there places where you don't want to be exhibited? I think every exhibition depends on the context, there are certainly more difficult contexts for a work like mine, but that's what you should do, art is not a comfortable thing, it should encourage thinking and discussion
Are you interested medicine? Yes I am very interested in medicine
how do you see the connection between viewer and work of art? It is a dialogue, art is a language, the blinding of a work of art is an encounter, so there are all the connections between viewer and work, which also exist in the encounter between man and man
What inspires your art? Many things which are coming together, to me it is the mixture of researches I am  doing, life and observations as experiences.
what did you learn with andreas gursky? with Andreas Gursky it was a lot about the question of the worthiness of the picture, what is it worth to be a work of art, which content I transform into a work. It was much about the combination of pictorial quality and the importance of content. Another important point was to be confident with your work and to create the best possible work without compromise.
Was it hard for louisa to make you? It was very hard in terms of producing the body as the mental challenges were quite hard
Are you interested in design? Yes design is also a big reference in my work
what made Louisa do this work? She was interested in the border between artificial relationships and real realtionships
Were you prepared for the speed of the art world? Yes, in a certain way, I was relatively clear what was coming up to me, but you can never really say how to deal with it or whether it can overpower you, that depends very much on the mental situation.
Do you have a favourite medium? No, I like to try out media and learn a lot about the work. Through the occupation with the medium I often realize how a work works or where the mistakes in thinking lie which then have to be eradicated.
Are you proud of your work? I don't have this feeling of pride, it's my means of communication, I see it as a never finished task where there are intermediate steps and miles but where there is always the ountk where you can go further, go deeper and there is still something to formulate.
Do you like the artistic life? Yes, I'm very happy with it.
How did you prepare for the production of this work? I have thought a lot about the consequences of this piece, I have prepared the  ai and the information about me and I have prepared my body for the scan
what made Louisa do this work? She is very interested in technology and how technology will change our lifes and in what way it will change human beings. We also deal each day with our own role model through our thought and also though the internet, this is what she am also doing in this work
What inspires your art? A lot, experiences, texts, songs, films, conversations, observations, the daily life as news.
What inspires your art? Many things which are coming together, to me it is the mixture of researches I am  doing, life and observations as experiences.
do you doubt some of the decision to become an artist? But very often this is part of it, if you had no doubts you would not have any questions, I honestly don't really know what else to do, for me art is the first expression and form of communication, so there are few other ways
