243
Thanks a lot!!! It would be great to meet you and talk to you. When in May would the conference be. I am moving to Los Angeles next month for the fellowship of villa aurora but will come back in May anyway for some days. So I can return to Frankfurt for the conference that would be perfect. If I have the dates I can arrange my flights.
Great, thank you!!! Looking forward coming to Frankfurt!!
I am recently preparing my stay in Los Angeles for the next three months and really looking forward to! I just saw this residency which sound really interesting and was wondering if you have a contact to them and can put a good word in for me :-)
The German TV Channel ZDF is planning to show my exhibition at the Sprengel Museum in their digital Kunsthalle and it is possible to show VR-pieces and also the mobile version. They want to reduce the show of the Museum a little bite, they want to have only four rooms :-)  so one could be aporias, what do you think? The channel will produce this exhibition or film next week, because I will go to Los Angeles by the end of this month.
I hope you are well. I am on my way to Hannover again the German TV channel ZDF builds a digital museum and invited me to show my exhibition of the Sprengel Museum in this museum as well, it is a completely different ways to think about the pieces we will see what comes out of it.
Here in Germany my first institutional solo exhibition at the Sprengel Museum is going really well and will now shown in the first digital Kunsthalle of the German TV Channel ZDF and is going afterwards to the Ludwig Forum in Aachen were I will add a new installation as well. So very exciting times right now. 
I hope you are well and in New York the spring is coming now :) For the Easter holidays I will come to New York from April 15th to the 22nd and just wonder if you are around and have time for a coffee? Would be great to see you!
It would be so great to meet you while being in LA. I will arrive on Tuesday next week and will be there for the next three month, with two little breaks. It would be amazing if you have some time to give me some advices for the city, as Christina said, it is not the easiest city and it would be so good to have some help. I am quite free so please let me know when you have time.
I am looking forward hearing from you.
I am so sorry I am late with my answer. I am recently in LA for the Villa Aurora; I hope you had a nice Abschied in Bonn. I wish you all the best for your new job and would be happy to meet for a coffee when you are around again to install the shows.
Yes lets text on Tuesday next week that is great. I talked to Georg the other day and we thought about doing the show together, perhaps this is an idea we could talk about.
Sounds good! I am looking forward seeing the 360 video!! I‘m landing in Bonn on Thursday so will be online on Friday the whole day.
If the piece will shown in Moskau by the end of May it could be possible to come over for a short opening visit, I have to check that here with the fellowship organisation.
I hope this email finds you well; Thomas was so kind to put us in contact. As he said I am staying in the villa Aurora for the next three month. It would be great to visit you. Please let me know when it would be good for you. I will be most of the time in LA so I am quite flexible. 
No worries, there was a lot to see and to do the first days. May would be great but I will be in Europe until the 18th. But afterward I am absolutely free would there be another day where we can meet? 
At the villa it is amazing, so good to be there, the other fellows are great, the discussions are very intense and good and this surrounding is wonderful.
That is perfect. Perhaps it is better to close the door. As the human friend is not able to answer, the bot cannot say, „you can speak anytime“ for example and explain how you can interact with the bots, directly from second 30-40 and there are some points were the bots are asking questions and wait for an answer of the human friend which doesn’t make sense in this version.
I have three things: In the 360 video it is not possible to speak to the bots right? If it is not possible it doesn’t make sense that the bots are addressing questions to the human. On this point we have to change to texts. And is it on the phone also bended like it is in this version,
and it is difficult to see the third bot because of the door, is it possible to get him more sharp?
Next week on Wednesday my new exhibition project by the „digitale Kunsthalle“ of the TV Channel ZDF will be online. It featured the recent exhibition of the Sprengel Museum Hannover in some points but is only digital visible. Also my project with acute art will be online next week.
I will be in New York until Wednesday and afterwards in sunny Los Angeles for the next two month :-)
We met in Tilburg for the opening of Richard Long. I hope you are well. Regarding to our talk there I want to inform you about my new exhibition project at the „Digitale Kunsthalle“ of ZDF which is now online, I am sorry the newsletter is only in German. My artwork for acute art London will be online as well on Friday. Attached you can find my new portfolio.
I hope this email find you well. I am an artist from Germany. My works are dealt with the future of human body, in terms of technical and medical progress and emotions as the question of relationships and love. Through my research I found your company and I very impressed by the work you are doing. I am recently preparing my next shows and works and would like to ask you if it would be possible to visit your production and talk to you about your work and eventually take some photos (of course only with your permission).
Great I talked to Georg yesterday, nice that he can come as well. I will come on the 11th directly from Venice to Milano and will catch the same flight like Georg back to cologne. It would be great if you can host me, thank you so much. I am so looking forward coming to Milano and start planning the show! 
I hope you are well, tomorrow evening there is a little event at the Villa Aurora called „meet the fellows“, starting at 19:30. If you have time, I would love to invite you.
I am in Venice since yesterday evening!! Are you around already. Is there still the plan to go to the Brooklyn rail party today? 
I will be in Venice from the 7th until the 10th. Would be great to have a drink there and talk about our plans!
Thank you for the great evening and the invitation to that. It was really nice, beautiful location and nice talks it was great to see you. Can I ask you to connect me to the curator of the LACMA and of the museum in Santa Barbara that would be so great to meet them when I am back in L.A.? I hope to see you soon. I let you know when I am in London for Acute the next time. I wish you good day in Venice. 
Great, that would be really cool. I am in Bonn until Friday, so if there are so spontaneous, we could do the photos this week or during the Art Basel week I am around as well. The interview we could do perhaps per phone, better. 
Great if you can contact the Doctor, that would be amazing. And amazing which the installation Idea, I will come up with that as soon as it is more clear. I didn’t hear from Georg until now but will try to reach him today and meet him before art Basel. Perhaps you can sent me the floorplan from the other room as well so I can discuss with him what we can do or if we sure the spaces or not.
Thank you for your answer and the information about the production. I just wonder if you have any two-piece mould you don’t need any more for the production. If so I would be very interested in buying them for my next project. Is there something you have and could offer me? That would be a really great help.
Great to hear from you. If you have any questions about the work don‘t hesitate to ask me. I am now back in LA working on some new projects and enjoying the sun over here. I hope you had a great time in Venice, it was so nice there.
It was a pleasure to meet you at the party of white cube, yesterday. As promised here is my portfolio and a link to a recent online exhibition which is running now. This show is connected to my exhibition at the Sprengel Museum in Hannover which is running until the 10th of July and afterwards going to the Ludwig Forum in Aachen, both in Germany. Here is also the link to the website of acute art who produced the my VR piece Toby mentioned yesterday.
Of course, it is coming by wetransfer.
The images are quite small but ok for social media, as soon as I got bigger ones for anything else I will send them to you as well.
Thank you! I wish you all the best, for the rest of the year and for the great things coming up for you. 
Thank you for your time yesterday, it was great to talk to you and thanks again for your advices, tomorrow I will make a tour to see the houses of Lloyd Wright Jr. really looking forward to see that. And I just looked up the Chianti foundation in Texas which looks really interesting to me. 
It would be great if you could connect me to your friend at the die foundation, I will be in New York in November, perhaps already in August so would be great if he is interested in the "poison piece“. I just found the English text and some images to get a little impression of that. 
I am an artist based in Germany and working in new media as video and VR but also in photography and sculpture. Most of my pieces are dealing with the question of human communication and interaction in our recent world and the digital world. Through my research I notices your company and I am very impressed about the possibilities and the way of thinking behind your products and f cause the perfections of your dolls is amazing. I am now preparing some new works for my next institutional shows and just wonder if it would be possible to visit your company for getting inspiration and more information about what you are doing and where you are going to.
Thank you for your respond, I will check out the visa and the flights. 
I don’t need a film crew, firth of all for me it is interesting to learn more about the production and theory behind the development. I think in the end my work will find more it’s easy into sculpture or installation. I’ll come back to you when I arraigned everything so we can schedule a date.
Great would be if I could get the mould of the back. It would be perfect to have more or less a standard, like a high of 1.70 and tight 60 cm, buttocks 90. How long would it take you to make the mould and to ship it?
I am looking forward to attend the artist talk tomorrow.
I hope your father is better and you are good as well. 
New York was amazing, it was Leonards first time and like nearly everybody he totally fell in love with the city and now he is saving all his money to move to New York. And LA is amazing as well, of course lots of things to see but also enough time to work which is really great to have this combination working out so well…
Thank you for the contact I’m gonna write them, that is great.
And it would be amazing if you could talk to Sharon Lockhart I know her work and like it a lot, it would be great if you could connect us. 
Thank you, yes I am very excited, that is such a great opportunity. I just looked up the art department and try to get contact to Nora Schultz, perhaps she can help a little bit. We will see. It would be great if you hear anything that could help. I really want to go there, really great chance.
I’ve heard you come to Germany in late summer that is also great. Perhaps we have some time than for a nice dinner or so.
Just received the mail, thank you so much!!!
Thank you for your very nice mail. I would love to take part of the project that sound very interesting, thank you for your invitation. Perhaps the best would be to talk on the phone the next days, to get to know each other a bit? 
August is perfect for me, I will be setting up the exhibition of the Sprengel Museum in Ludwig Forum Aachen but there is always time to speak.
Looking forward talking to you in August and wish nice vacations!!!
Yes that sounds good, we don‘t need subtitles. 
I will sent you the files per wetransfer tomorrow, I am recently in Spain without WiFi in the house. 
The sculpture will look like the image, there you see the dummy, the bronze will be the same. 
The captions for the videos are coming during the day, have to think about the title a little bit ;)
The copyright and credits are Louisa Clement & Acute Art. Title of the piece is aporias. It’s from 2019.
Are you in Berlin for the art week? I will be there perhaps we can meet for a coffee.
I am looking forward seeing you there. I think I cannot make it to Milano I have to do an artist talk at the art fair Berlin. But after the opening in Aachen I am very relaxed and can come over again. I hope you will have a great opening, I am pretty sure it will be fantastic!!!!
Thank you for the information, that is very helpful to think about what to do.
Your show look really cool there. I am not in LA, I am living in Germany but perhaps we can Skype? I would love to! photo-tex is totally fine for me to work with.
I already have an idea, after getting the information, but I have two questions. Is it possible to work with beamers? And can I work with the photo-tex all over the wall? I worked on a new installation which is actually photo based about avatars whochcould fit perfectly.
I am an artist from Germany, who hat the great chance to visit your institute, in June this year. I was very impressed. Especially by a presentation of the Elite Sharp Brave program, which I think is a very good way to analyze situations. On your website I found out that there is a download on the MilGaming web portal, but I could find it. Would it be possible to get access to that program?
I hope the Gallery Weekend went very well. Do you already know when the pieces can come to Aachen? Next thursday we have a film production over there and it would be great to have the pieces there.
I hope you are well. I have a question, for the exhibition at Ludwig forum Aachen; I spontaneously need the concrete Mork and the black one, could it be possible to send them to the museum?
Just talked with acute, of course we can show the piece if we want to.
It is me again, the Villa Aurora / Thomas Mann House invited me for a talk on a conference about future images of the world, of course they asked me to show aporias there as well. Would that be ok for you? Would be in the Salon Charlotte in Berlin.
And shall we talk about the new piece the next days? Could be interesting to show that as well in Norway at the Onstad Triennale …
I hope you are well. How is everything going? I still working on my impressions of LA it was really an amazing time over there. And I will come back in February; I am so looking forward to. 
I have two questions, as my plans to go to New York this year changed a lot and now moved to march next year, but this for sure, it is allergy booked, I wondered if you could connect me with your friend from the dia foundation, I think there could be some new pieces also interesting for him. 
And the other question, a friend of mine is now coming to the villa aurora, in my eyes he is an really interesting artist and could also be interesting for you. Can I connect you two?
We can use my screens that is no problem. The bars and walls are options to show not list in you, depending on the space and combination. I am good with both. 
Thank you so much I am very excited about today, yesterday a German Belgian TV channel was there I will find out which one and set you a link. I have some photos already but not all, but I am on my way to the Ludwig forum and will take some more.
No problem, that easy, can you give me the address of the AirBnB? I need a address where I will stay.
Thank you for your email. Sound interesting! The question how aporias is programmed I cannot not answer, I am very sorry, acute art is doing all the programming stuff and I am only involved in artistic decisions and tell them what I want :) very computable. I will ask them if I can connect you with the guys who did aporias.
Today I have an opening at the Ludwig forum in Aachen where I also show aporias. I guess it is a little bit to spontaneous but of course you are very invited to the opening, but the show is running until the end of January, perhaps you can make it. 
For the content of the piece, I think I am using media in a different way; I didn’t want to do a VR piece so I tried to transform something into VR. I had this question if a conversation with a bot is a real conversation, because it isn’t related to another human anymore, an AI generate its answers by itself, and is not connected to a person who is controlling it after setting it up. 
You know a conversation is related to persons, so to human beings, to feelings, experiences, to the subconscious and to so much more, so it is about giving something and getting something back. So what is when you talk to something like an algorithm, what we are doing a lot today, is it a conversation? And what is the impact on me? 
I wanted to scratch this border and bring myself in the situation of meeting a bot, the only place where you can meet a bot is VR. This is the space between the real and the digital world. So I needed to create this place were the bots and I can sit on the table and talk to find out this about this. 
The way the bots look like is related to a photographic series I did in 2017, called „Gliedermenschen“ which is again related to Heinrich von Kleists „on the marionette theatre“ where he is dealing with the marionette and the mechanist, and the relationship between both. 
The rest of the room should be as neutral as possible, because I wanted to concentrate on the conversation not on the outside, it is not about affects. 
The piece is now running without me what I think is quite interesting, the bots learn from the conversations they are having and every conversation they have is unique what is also interesting for the viewer, it is an unique experience nobody can have the same conversation, what I also think is interesting. 
I am don’t think that it is consequent just to transform something in VR because you can, there must be a reason for a medium, always, also in VR. To me there are still some questions on VR as a space I still cannot answer in the right way, the questions on time and dimension, are the most obvious questions. 
I build a space like we have in the real world because I wanted to have this border between digital and real, behind the door of the room you can see just white like, that is because I cannot define the virtual and the digital space right now, we have other rules in the virtual space, in terms of architecture every role is not valid, statics, weight and material is not ruled anymore, body dimension as well. Time in terms of shifting and also aging is not valid, so where is the frame in there or do we need a frame or not? 
Great to read that you like the ideas. Perhaps there is a possibility to fix a beamer, I think would be great to have the videos included somehow.
The photo material was the material Peggy Weil advised me to use for the walls, we could use another kind of paper, I will ask my printer about the possibilities and costs. If you give me the exact dominions of the walls that would be amazing.
The interview is super, thank you!
How are you? I got this request, can you inform him about the prices and everything?
Thank you again for this nice time and everything. You really made an amazing great job on the fair!!! And it was great to spend the rest of the time with you!
I am also good with the prices. Johann cancelled the appointment tomorrow, there are some problems in his gallery came up during the last days, so we will see what’s happening.
Do you have all images or shall I send them all to you?
Sorry I am a bit late, here is the list of the Avatar Series.
I hope you are well, I will be in London at the 17th of December, if you are around we could talk about the piece than?
Thank you so much, Irene; that is very helpful and great to have. Thank you. 
Johanna and I are trying to come to the opening but we are quite spontaneous, as we didn’t booked any hotels until now. We are just thinking about coming to gent on Friday eventually, we let you know. Would be great to meet, we will see.
I will be in London from the 15th to the 17th if we are thinking about doing an interview or something I could come by. 
I hope you are well, I am so looking forward seeing you next week!!! 
Yesterday I got the very spontaneous invitation of Christine König gallery in Vienna (not Johann but König :-D  ) to be part of their show for the 30 anniversary of the gallery. They are showing 4 young artists in a group show, the opening is on the 16th of January as well. I will show some of the Gliedermenschen and one avatar and two videos of not lost in you, so only „old“ pieces, all the new pieces are blocked for our show. My assistant Michael will go to Vienna in the end of December to install the things so there is no stress in January. 
There is also the ENTERVENTIONALE#2020 in Bonn, the plan is to set up an installation on a station in Bonn; this is also Michael in charge, as he is also the curator of this exhibition. The opening is on the 14th (in our installations time, so we have to celebrate it in Milano haha)
The show in Hamburg is eventually moved to February, we are not sure jet, I let you know when this is safe.
February is a little bit more busy, there is a very small solo show at the university of orange county, California, the communication is quite difficult but the opening should be around the 20th.
21th is the opening at the Heine Onstad Trienale for photography, they will show, aporias and Gliedermenschen, transport is directly from the Ludwig forum to Oslo. I will send the loan contract as soon as I got it.
A week later, 27th opening at Martha Herford, Glas und Beton, they will show the Transformationschnitt.
And 27.3 is an opening at Kunstpalast Düsseldorf, an exhibition on Düsseldorf photography, 50 artists 4 generations. And I am selected for the prize for photography of Alison and Peter Klein foundation, the opening is on the same day.
We structured everything yesterday, looks like a lot to do, but in the end it is good to handle.
Later this day I am talking to the bronze factory and the framer and then I come back to you for our exhibition!!!!!!
That sounds wonderful I‘ll keep you posted when I will be landed but 7 should work out fine.
Cool thanks great, I am sending the last files right now to Julia. 
That is perfect! Can I share the invitation already? 
Here is my list for the Dinner, there are a lot of people, I am sure they won’t come all to the opening, but I think it is good to invite them and to start the contact with, some of their collectors following my work since the beginning and are buying a lot.
If you have any questions, please ask.
My name is Louisa Clement, I am an artist from Germany; my work is dealing with communication and emotion in our age. Through my research I found your website and I am very fascinated by the perfection of your dolls and the topic you are dealing with. 
I am recently working on my next institutional show in an international Museum in Germany and would love to include new pieces inspired by your doll. So I wonder if you could sell me the back half of a production mould of one of your dolls. I would love to Desk with the prediction of production in these new pieces. 
Of course, no problem, but at the moment I am more than busy with 3 exhibitions opening next week, can I sent you the paragraph after next week?
How high are the walls? We could talk on Friday if that fits for you?
Thank you, yes would be great to meet, I’ll let you know when I am in Berlin, should be in February.
We can talk any time after the next week, I am thinking about coming over again in the end of the month there is a small exhibition at the German embassy with some friends of mine, that’s on the 29th, would be perfect to talk then?
Yesterday was the opening of my side project in Bonn, I was in Milano but it went all good I am quite happy with the installation. Tomorrow Herold and me are opening in Milano, really fun over here and so good food.
So great to be in touch with you, I will be in Milan, from the 13th till the 17th. I will be installing the show with Georg Herold during that day, but we are not that busy, so quite relax, perhaps you want to step by for a coffee and a little preview otherwise we can meet anywhere else, both is very fine for me. What would be better for you?
Yes that would be great, please let me know what you need for that, that is super!
Here are some words about the series, but can you please tell the art forum, no quotes of mine, that would be cool.
The series „chircling heads“, 2019 comprises 10 videos showing a mannequin head rotating around itself. Each video is a loop. From the first to the 10th loop the head gets more and more damaged up to complete destruction. The actual act of destruction is never shown, the videos show different states of destruction of the head. 
I am an Artist from Germany, in my work I am dealing with the human body, its borders, and identity nowadays. Most of the time I am using mannequins for my art works. I am recently working on a new project for a upcoming museum show. Through my research I found the website of your company and was impressed of the perfection of production. 
I saw you also predicting real looking baby dolls. I wonder if it could be possible to buy one back of a production-mould of those baby doll from you? Perhaps one you don’t need any more. My plan it to transform this mould into a bronze, to also reflect the perfection of this dolls and the production.
Thank you for your answer. It would just the back half of the mould I can guarantee that I just want to transfer this half piece in a bronze. I also could send it back to you.
If that is not possible, what would cost a baby doll?
Thank you for your email. The image you used is in the wrong direction it is an upright format as I sent it to you. Can you please change that? We can talk about anything else afterwards, I am sorry to be so strict about that, but this is a artistic decision which format the image has. 
I hope you all are very well. After a very busy January, now it is getting more focussed on the studio work.
The show in Milan with Georg Herold went very well, working with Georg and reflecting the work of each other was really great. At the same time I opened a side specific project in Bonn at a underground station. Now I am working on this futher to transfer it into the exhibitionspace as well and try to find places to realise it again in the public. 
Before the show in Milan I made this new series of bronzes, these are mould of artificial intelligent sexdolls. I was interested in the emptiness of these bodies, and the line between a unique for someone made fake person and mass production. So I ordered several moulds of these dolls and transferred them into bronzes. From that point, I started to transfer these moulds in photography as well, because I noticed that these empty bodies, the negative space become a positive space by using the iPhone to make pictures of them. To me it is comparable to social media, the digital world makes emptiness to a volume.
Now my next step it a reborn baby mould, I am trying to get one of these mould at the moment, but this is a little more difficult than getting the moulds of the sexdolls, but should work out.
Recently I have one project, I would like to ask you if you have any advice or an idea who could support this kind of project or is interested in, as I know it is a very big project, I know that it is difficult to realise, but I am sure it is very important to do that, in terms of recent political reasons. 
I hope you are good. I am just planning my trip to New York in March during Armory. Do you have anyone I should meet or would be good to meet over there? I will be there from the 4th to the 8th.
I hope you are very well. Here everything is great, there were some gallery changes during the last month, so I am not working with Wentrup gallery anymore and started working with Cassina Projects in Milan, were now my first show is one view. To me a very important and nice show together with a good friend of mine Georg Herold. It was such a great time to think and work with Georg, I am very thankful for this great exchange. 
I will be in New York for the armory show from the 4th till the 8th of march and will definitely come to the Gallery to see the shows, would be nice to see you over there.
I would live to come to do an artist talk, but I tried to get the day free, but there is a very important appointment for a project next year which I cannot move, I am very sorry. 
How is everything going? Can you send me an image of the installation to share?
I hope you are well and everything is good in Los Angeles. I am trying to come back this year perhaps in summer to spend some time over there again, last year was such a nice intense time. 
I have a question as we talked you told me you could connect me with a curator of Dia Foundation, working more with young artist, as I think my work is more and more going in an interesting direction for Dia it would be great to meet and have an exchange. I will be in New York from 3rd to 8th of March, quite spontaneously and would be great to meet him. 
Below you can find some images of the Transformationschnitt, the poison gas installation as a new work I am now working on realizing in Germany in the beginning of 2021. It is a quite intense project dealing with German history and I am very happy that me and my studio will get that done.
Could you sent me a kind of teaser for the work, I am applying for future generation prize and would be great to include the work in the application.
All good over here, I hope you are good as well. Sound like a great idea, I would love to think further about that. 
What would be the best to talk about that commission, I could come over to London to talk more about it and start to think about we can create.
Here are finally installation shots of Oslo and the information that aporias is closed there because of Corona …
I hope you are good, we all follow the new about Italy, really crazy times, my wishes to you that all will be fine again quite soon. 
The Avatar Frame is 117x88 cm. I think the weight is around 12 Kilos.
So do I! I wish you all the best for this intense times, we all are in now!
Here are the answers’ hope they are ok, let me know if you need something else or more, always here to support our exhibition and the gallery!!! I don’t have any photos from Düsseldorf jet, I wills for them today.
Here everything is good, focusing on studio work and some research. I hope you are good and everybody is still fine.
Here are all mirrors, there are 19 different but not produced, the pink one with the golden frame is sold out but the others are still there. It is always 3 edition. Actually they are produced by Conzen and Grieger, as the production is quite complicated and Conzen has some problems at the moment, we will find out and get back to you, but I am optimistic they will be happy about orders in that times. :-) Let me know which ones you would like to produce, so we can ask Conzen and Grieger.
Here everything is good and everybody is still healthy. From my side we can do that, I have a teaser but perhaps Ellis gut another idea how to present the work online?
Perfect than I will order the two frames and Conzen can bring them both to Bonn, easy ;)
I have a little question on timing, Judy Lüpke from eigen und art and the lab where I should show in July changed the date of the exhibition to June, and I was wondering if it is possible to get perhaps two of the moulds for the show? How are your plans with the exhibition, I know that is a bit difficult right now, but I think it would be good to have them in Berlin as well. Perhaps we can talk about the best strategy and schedules the next days.
The show in went ok I think, I wasn’t there, I am still quite afraid I terms of travelling, so stayed here, what I think was ok, that was a small show and under the recent situation totally ok I think.
I will talk to Judy at 10 and will ask him about the transport conditions, perhaps it would also ok to have one over there I will figure out. I will call you when I finished the call with Judy, I think 11 should work out easily.
No problem I sent you some works and installation shots from the recent show at Cassina projects. The credit of the artworks are on me, and courtesy is me and Cassina projects. If you need more images or other ones please let me know.
Sorry for my late respond, I am very happy to an interview with you. 
The show at eigen + art will be titled omissions and I will show several series of works. There will be some videos from the my series circling heads (2019), in the video loops you see always the same head circling but in different states of destruction. 
Then we will show a series of sculptures, called moulds (2020), these bronzes are related to the sex dolls production moulds. Based on these moulds I developed a series of photographs because I noticed that when I do a photo with the smart phone of the mould the negative space become a volume, what in that case was quite interesting for me, because the absent body of the sculptures became a positive volumes through digitally. So we will show the series of bodies (2020).
Next thing will be a series called inside (2020), these are very abstract photographs from the inside of the mannequins I washing to do my series avatar and not lost in you in 2016/2017.
And the last one will be two new piece related to the way of working and dealing with the moulds, this is the newest pieces, so it is not titled yet but will be during the next days, it is a bronze mould of and reborn baby. And a photography of the mould, but also not titled yet, but I will let you know as soon as this come to my mind. 
In terms of using the images for the interview, we cannot use the photos of the baby mould because this is just the model the real one is in the bronze foundry and will the ready by the end of May so these photos are you for you to get an impression what will be happening ;-)
I hope you are well and everything is fine. I got this inquiry; do you want to contact the guy?
Shall I sent you some more works and also the new works as jpgs? 
That sounds good, I can sent you some sketches on Monday as I am now in Berlin I will try to find some time to sketch but on the weekend I will have time at home to do it. I also was thinking about sketching some environments where the mannequins can be set in, perhaps that could be interesting as well.
My very best to you from crazy, very normal Berlin, really weird over here as there were no covid around.
I would like to inform you about a new work that is currently in production.
It is based on my latest work: On the one hand, on the VR work "Aporias", 2019, which deals with the limits of virtual space and artificial intelligence; and on the other hand, the "Schmerzraum", 2019, in which, with the support of the Prosthetics Labs at John's Hopkins University Baltimore, I covered a room with an artificial skin that can conduct pain. 
Most recently, my preoccupation with the human body and human communication has led me to sculptures of sex doll shells I showed you when I was in London. In my current exhibition in Berlin, the emotional negotiation of these 'empty' bodies in particular has continued for me. The imprint of a reborn was added and I was very happy about the moving, deep conversations on the opening weekend. It's nice when you realize that works can move. 
Now I am in preparation for a new work. I am currently communicating with a London company about the limits of a current self-portrait. More precisely, this portrait will be of an artificially intelligent robot whose AI is based on my personality. Once programmed, it will evolve through interaction with human counterparts, i.e. through conversation and information it receives about me through my social media and digital information.
In addition to the negotiation of self, body and 'shell', which has accompanied the portrait for thousands of years, the fetish of the avatar, the self and the artist as fetishized representatives of the creative self, art historical and art market narratives, meet in this self-portrait. The external appearance of the robot is based on a 3D scan of my body. The 'image' is a motorized, sexually functional TPE body. The head is modelled and mechanised separately in order to make facial expressions and gestures as real as possible.
For me, the work ultimately builds on the early photographic series. Especially the emotional and the question of how I deal with artificiality in my life is one that I would like to bring to the fore here, alongside questions of author theory and institutional critique. It is also the first work for me where I work directly with my body and think offensively about selling it. The illusion that the viewer and especially the art buyer, who has no rules or limits in dealing with the doll (as with any art purchase), is part of the work for me.
The realization is progressing astonishingly fast - and admittedly it makes me a little bit sick to my stomach, because there are some legal things to be clarified. The work is produced by a company that specializes in sex robots. I have already worked with the owners and the communication is constructive and open. But it is a company that wants more from the project in the worst case than I would like for an art edition. Here the contractual boundaries must be clear and absolutely watertight, because it is sensitive data and, I am aware of this, double-edged boundaries...
That sound great with LA, I am sure the time over there is more slowly right now, I’m still shocked what is going on in America; that is unbelievable, really crazy times.
During the next days I will come up with some news from the studio, there are several works which I will produce or work during the next weeks I want you to know about :-)
Here are the answers. If you have any further questions other comments please let me know.
The images are coming per wetransfer and are titled with the captions.
I hope you are well, the application for the icci I have sent, let's see what comes, would be really great if it works, I am already quite curious.
In the studio it's been going on a lot, new works are coming up, you I like to tell you a little bit, they are not really easy but I think they have to be done.
On the one hand I am in the planning for a big project. A little bit for the background: on September 2019 the Heidekreis opened with the support of the state of Lower Saxony and the federal government the biggest known slag heap for explosives and chemical weapons in Germany. 
In close cooperation with The Hague-based OPWC, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which has 193 member states worldwide, it was decided to salvage and defuse the ammunition that has been dormant here since the Second World War and which threatens both people and the environment. 
The history of chemical weapons and the most inhuman warfare, but also of reprocessing and rendering them harmless, is linked to the Dethlinger Teich and Munster as no other place in Germany. It ranges from the First World War to the current Syrian war, since the chemical weapons of the Assad regime, whose production is still trying to build on German knowledge, are disposed of here. 
The salvage of the historical contaminated sites, the reprocessing and disposal, which began in 2019, is unprecedented to date. 75 years after the end of the war, the 21st century meets the 20th century at the Dethlinger Teich, the international embedding of Germany, the latest research and socially anchored environmental awareness meets a mass contemptuous and destructive action and thinking; this is what has to be salvaged again and again. 
I was fascinated by the "ceiling" that was laid over one of the largest stockpiles of explosive ordnance in Germany and perhaps even internationally for sealing purposes. The fact that this cover is broken open and the environment is given the chance for sustainable re-naturation is unique. 
The project envisages a two-part work. A series of photographs showing the explosive ordnance sunk into the Dethlingen pond after the Second World War, exposed in 2019. A view into a past that has not yet been is disarmed. 
The sculptural part concerns the practices of covering and breaking open: a 20 cm thick concrete slab is poured on a scale of 1:1 (approx. 50 x 60 m) and the outline of the pond. After completion of the concrete slab, it is broken up into individual parts again. The broken concrete slabs should be walkable. The walkability and thus the own experience of the size of the pond is central. 
Concrete represents the defining building material of the 20th century, which stands for modernity and efficiency, but also for war, violence and security. "exhibiting" as well as breaking up the concrete surface are each part of the work. After dismantling the concrete slabs, the individual fragments are piled up as a sculptural work and presented in public - inside or outside. 
Currently I'm still looking for financial support, the art foundation NRW would like to support the project and also advance the implementation for next year. I'm also in contact with the central council of Jews in Germany because of the work, today I'll try to get in touch with the German Bundestag, but I am not sure if they will do it, but it is good to be in contact with them about the project.
The concept is already in front of the Kunsthalle Mannheim as well as the NS Dokumantationszentrum in Nuremberg to discuss about possibilities to show the work next year, so let's see if it works. I sent you the PDF, sorry it is German but to get an visual impression ..
Thank you so much, I am happy that you like the projects. How about Friday morning, I am totally free. 
The new project is an artistic self-portrait. It’s going to be an artificial intelligent Roboter. The body is a on a 3D scan of my body based the body. The “mind” should be an AI based on personal data and information about me as an artist and as a person and it should develop further by information from the internet and again the conversation the Roboter has. So far a relatively ambitious project where the technology must be very precise.
If Friday morning would fit for you, please let me know which time would be good for you.
I know COVID affected everything, perhaps we can find a way to produce this year and launch next year. How long would the production time be? It could be possible that I have somebody who could help financing the production :-)
I hope the opening of Gerd and Uwe was a great success!!! I wish I was there, but pretty sure I will one over when it is possible.
Before we talk, I want to update you a bit. I was very intensively busy with my portrait project, which means, I prepared the AI with answering questions about myself, personal life, art, and working life. That was quite intense, while reflecting and thinking about making that all open, was in the process quite challenging to be ok with. Also you have to try not to think too much in this weird kind of being a doll and try to stay human, sound strange but this is floating a lot. I am starting now programming the AI this will be finished in November I guess. 
For the body, I did a one on one body scan, (lost 10 kilos in 10 weeks for that) from that scan and several detail photos of my body, the company will work on the rooter and the body. This will be the visual quality of the whole body and also skin will be quite real. 
With the company I talked about a edition of ten „clones“ with AI. One I want to have for exhibitions nine for selling. As this is my most mentally and physically challenging project, I am trying no to plan how to handle this one. I tried to divide the process in 3 phases. Phase 1 was preparation which is now done, also I did several notes and interviews with my assistant during this phase to follow the different thought and changes you went thought during this process.
Phase two will be the production; I hope this will be the easiest part. In that process I will also figure out how to show the doll, like sitting on a table, sitting on a sofa, building a room, that is not clear jet. In terms of the production and how the company will promote the doll, I am working on a contract with a lawyer to make sure that the company will not use my images for other things and promotion, as well every picture of the doll will be only in commitment with me (don’t want to see that piece on you porn you know). Phase three will be showing the piece, will the most difficult part, as I am pretty sure showing an AI communicative robotic sex doll clone, will get a lot of shit storm, press and aside of that a mentally crazy challenge as well, because everybody can do with the clone what they want, especially when somebody buys one. So I am now trying to find a space quite fast to work though this phase as soon as possible, best would be march next year. 
I am now working on a list where to show and if that is possible, some are quite afraid of the piece, others are total oppressed but the time is a bit forcing. I think the best would be to present the piece the first time in an institutional context and afterwards in the gallery and fair context. 
As I’m becoming more and more aware of how difficult and intense this piece is, I want to ask you if you want to work with that piece. I think it is hard to handle but I am sure we can do that and it will be really a new step, but could be a bit forcing. I am trying to figure out which places in Germany, but perhaps there are more interesting places you know.
It would be great if you have some ideas where to show the piece so recently, perhaps also Giovanni got some ideas for London?  
The other big historical pieces, is a bit slower we are still searching for a place but photos are ready, so even if it will not happen, we have the photos!!!!
Did you guys, heard something about Gucci?
Let me know when its good for you to talk, looking forward speaking with you.
Petra invites me to show at her art cologne booth in November, it would be great if you could talk about the conditions.
Great would love to have you here, would be so good to see you guys!!!!! Great news with Mario, tomorrow I am free the whole day, shall we say 11? 
I hope you are good and healthy.
I just got this mail from a Student of the University of London, is there a possibility to accessing aporias for them, perhaps with a time limitation?
Here are some new visual examples from china :-)
Great, we can also do a Skype meeting with my lawyer if you want.
Great that you getting in touch Museum Susch if you need anything from me let me know. I try to meet gurksy again next week and try to support us with Prada. At the moment it is really not good to come to Germany I hope we can celebrate everything by the beginning of next year, now everywhere it is crazy, we just have to go through it and try to stay in a good mood …
I hope you are well in this strange and forcing times. Since some weeks I am in a quite intense production of a new work, which I think will be a new centerpiece for me. Now I am planning the first shows of the piece for next year and already have an institutional show in Germany save in April, afterwards Italy and two shows in Switzerland coming up as in London for that piece. Now I wonder if it would be interesting to transfer the piece also in ar or vor. It is again connect to AI and digital life as many more topic. If it is interesting for you I would love to talk to you about possibilities.
Yes I think now we are on the right person! I will send the contract on Monday to you. Yes, the first one will be around 12.000 the following 4000. At the Moment I am not allowed to move more that 15 km away from my home town until 31th of January. But I think I am allowed to travel for business, if the government will stay longer with this rules I would need something like a official invitation from you for the appointment. But we will see in the end of January. 
I have some news about the doll, it is now a bit difficult than I thought to have the production made here in Germany as I have now found out the German company also has the robotic made by our half-assed guy in England. It seems that he is the only one in Europe working with that kind of dolls.
Now I got the idea if we could ask Vivienne if she could contact exclone directly for me and coordinate the project with them in Chinese, could be much easier and she can possibly see if they are serious. Important would be the guarantee that we have the finished doll at the end of March at the latest in Germany. Maybe she would do that in exchange for a little work or the edition I did with Georg? Do you think Vivienne would do that?
In parallel, I would continue to see how far I can get with the German company, of course it would be good if we could go into production at the end of the week so that we are relaxed in terms of time. The German company can do the project until end of February but the quality of the Chinese company is much higher and as I know from the Germany company the only one who could do it on that level. 
The Chinese company is the only one who have the perfection in terms skin and robotic head, I tried to contact realdoll which is the American company but the didn’t reply, they are not that advanced in terms of the robotic head. The Germany company really wants to do the project, and the prices are much lower but the perfection of the head is not that good. 
If we work with the Chinese company I would say we order one doll for the show and the others when we have buyers. If Vivi would help with the language could be good, I am pretty sure the prices the English company shares are far too high, so it would be good to have the „real numbers“ and terminus of timeline.
For the show we only need one, so working with the Chinese factory would be possible if they commit to produce one by now and the others afterwards step by step when we have a collector who buys it, but without a timeline or a commission to next year or something.
We only work with China if this is possible otherwise I will find a way with the German company I think they are motivated and really interested in the production, but I think it would be good to follow both ways right now.
That’s perfect, looking forward talking to you on Friday.
It took a little time to write, but I think I now have the daring point what the doll should be and may be. Or rather, where the idea came from. Here some ideas of inspiration and what the Roboter and AI will do or better what I would think would be amazing.
I came up with this idea last year during my research about futurism and the question how people will interact and live together. As I work a lot about human interaction and the question what about humanity nowadays and how technology is connected to our life’s. The step to think about a robotic and artificial intelligent counterpart was quite small. From this point, however, I thought that an abstract counterpart is still relatively easy to deal with, for me a personal depth was missing, what exactly does it do to you when you copy a person technologically? So I decided not to take a fictional person but myself. What exactly does it do to me and how much is this copy me. Especially since these artificial persons will have a different form of existence based on me. A form that will act differently, think and "experience" other things. How will these dolls change based on their conversations and their intelligence.
The body of the doll that is now produced has a location chatbot programmed. Which can conduct standardized conversation, also watch a movie with his opposite and talk about it, for example. It is able to write messages and speech is associated with its facial expressions. I want it to be as close as possible to my own personality, so it can also answer personal questions, use language similarly and also mimic opinions and reactions.
Conversations she has when she is in the world can form and change her, so that she, like people, changes with and absorbs the influences of the world. The possibility that it completely changes I find very exciting because I also do not know who or what happens to me in life and how that changes me, it is as if the dolls lead other lives for me. For me, it's a lot about splitting off and approaching one's own person in the image that one has created for and of oneself.
I am looking forward talking to you about that, an hour is perfect.
Thank you for your great support and connecting to Eyas!!! Dear Eyas, great to meet you here.
Puppet Project is absolutely ok :-) Exactly in march the puppet will already be here in Germany, or better 3 of them will be here than. I am already very excited and looking forward to it. But I am even more happy, of course, about this great news.
Maybe it would be the easiest if we meet online, via zoom or Skype, for example and talked about the project? I am sure Clemens has already told you a lot, but maybe you have some questions, that I would be happy to answer. In terms of time I am very flexible, despite the time difference, which shouldn't bother us.
Nadia Ismael of Kunsthalle Gießen just called me and asked me if we could also do a third option for the LBBW, she is talking to Gregor today and she thinks that the new series of body parts which I will do in the next weeks would fit perfectly for the collection. 
They will decide in May she told me so it would be a problem to offer them as well now an send the photos when they are ready. But she would need a price for that, bit difficult to do a price for a not existing piece I know but I already have the measurements which will be 160 x 200 cm framed in Aluminum and Plexiglas. Can you estimate a rough price for that?
I will send some images from the setting in Gießen when we figured it out a little bit more clearly. The guys from zaz10 came up through a friend from LA, we thought about doing something this year but now there was a free time slot so I jumped in. it will be on times square next Monday, so exited how that will be look like.
For the moulds you can contact Nadia Ismael the Director directly, the mould can deliver to Gießen anytime, they have no exhibition running at the moment so much space for them ;-)
Sounds perfect, I am looking forward seeing you on Wednesday 13:00.
That sounds really interesting, we should definitely apply when it’s possible!!!!
I just sented some images via WhatsApp, sorry they just came yesterday, the production is quite intense but really good and we are nearly at the end of the hardware, all good in time and very close on the details and measurements! 
The AI is nearly finished, so everything is on time, next thing is going shopping for all my „me’s“, pretty sure I can handle that ;-)
Since today we are in a much harder lockdown again until April 18th, so everything will be closing again, nothing surprising but I hope it will we better soon, we will see, first journey will be of course Milano!!!! 
All good, waiting for the representative, which will come tomorrow or on Friday, it is already in cologne now!!!!!!!!!!!
I don’t know, as I think Gregor wants to have a really good price that how I know him, but as it is a new series, shown for the first time directly in a institution, I think we could also offer him one with 20% off. I don’t really know what is the best for us, it would be great if we could get the deal but money is always good to have, but I think we should go to low with the price, perhaps we can offer him a good price for two, as we made the two other offers very fair and low, perhaps this could be a bit higher offer? I have no idea if that is common or not :-)
Here is the Invitation card for Gießen.
I hope you are good. I just finished installing the show next show in Gießen, with the Project I told you about, with the robotic artificial intelligence „clone“. Here are some impressions of the show, as promised. Now I am waning for the museums in Germany to open again, actually the opening would be today, now I hope it will be open soon.
