actually there no specific point, i was always dealing with art on different levels, so there was never something like a decision to make art, it was the logical step to study art and make art.
my inspirations are the daily life and experience from that as newspaper articles, researches and books.
to me technology i a tool to transfer a content into an art piece, so if i have an idea in mind a content for an art piece i am searching for the strongest medium to form that content.
the avatar is a digital identity, as i am dealing a lot with communication and digital communication in my work, mostly the question how the way of communication affected us and what is the meaning of the way we use to communicate.
to make situation of communication visual i used mannequins, because the avatar is actually nothing really visual for me.
mannequins are place holders for human beings in my work as in real life.
i decided to use mannequins because i want to have the questions i am dealing with in my work generalized and not connected to one special person or me.
also the points of standardization, were important to me.
i would advise to every young person, to work hard, concentrate on the work and questioning yourself what is worth to be an art work in terms of content and intention.
see as much art as possible and reflect the world you are living in.
i was very concentrated in working in my studio and preparing everything for the next exhibitions.
i hope to expand my skills in terms of research, media and content, finding new questions about the world we are living in and how we are dealing with it, during our time.
gursky teached me to find my own way as an artist, to deal with the point of time and questioning the relevant of the topics i was dealing with, what is it worth to be an art piece
he forced me to be straight and claim for a high level of content and visually.
the human body is the smallest room you as an individual has to deal with.
this room is set in the space around you.
i am trying to trying to find the line between being inside of this room and outside, what is impact you have on the outside and of other individuals.
i choose the present and the absent of the body because i think this is one of the most changing and stabile topics at the same time in our society at the same time.
most of my topics and ideas are coming from the daily live and also digital communication is a topic i am questionings a lot.
for some the smart phone is a big part where this takes place so for me it is a logical and consequent step to work with the phone not only as the place of inspiration, but also as a part of the production.
the title refers to the area where the gallery is and the flight number of our first flight to milan.
we decided to chose that title because that place is the pace where we show this dialogue for the first time.
the medium is always related to the content of the work, so im always trying to find the best medium for the questions i am dealing with.
there is not really one medium i prefer, it is a question on process and reflection which leads me to the work as it is in the end.
the new sculptures came from an artistic research about the borders of human relationships now a days what changed during the last years and how are we integrate artificiality and absence in our way of thinking, treating and interacting.
that leads me to sex dolls and the question of an image your counterpart has to fit in.
i was interested in the line between imagination and reality.
what kind of image you fill in a person, how big is the part of imagination
i saw the border in the production moulds of sex dolls, these edge between the part where the material for the body will be filled in and the frame which holds the two mould together.
these edge is for me that line.
so i took these moulds and transformed them into bronzes.
the avatar series plays with the tension between their artificiality and their otherwise human postures.
the way the mannequins seem to have a physical interaction comes across as eerie, yet almost comforting.
while the digital and the virtual are reshaping our individuality and behavioral patterns.
the mannequin in my work are placeholders, they describes in that series something related to the human being but not being human.
that is what the avatar is for us in the digital world.
these mannequin bodies i am using make these questions on behavior, individuality and perhaps reality, a doubt of engagement, seriousness and sometimes misunderstandings visual.
i didnt choose to become a photographer, i am an artist.
but of course for me photography developed into the main medium with which i transform content into something visualized.
i work with installation, video, sculpture and performance as well, and this was one of the reasons i wanted to work with andreas gursky.
at kunstakademie düsseldorf, he teaches what is called an open class freie kunst, which is not explicitly a photography class.
the interdisciplinary discourse that arises when you bring together artists working in many different ways and mediums is more than enriching.
the focus in gurskys teaching was always about having a strong connection between content and visual quality.
kunstakademie düsseldorf is where bernd and hilla becher led a class just like gursky today and established what became the so-called becher or düsseldorf photo school.
in their class were artists like laurenz berges, andreas gursky, candida höfer, axel hütte, thomas ruff, jörg sasse, thomas struth, so it is obviously one of the best places to study if your work has anything to do with photography.
düsseldorf and its surrounding cities are saturated with many artists who live in the area.
the exchange with them is very frequent, not only in the academy but also in daily life as well.
you get to know them quite easily, and you can learn from them personally and professionally.
the idea of the series came up when i had new identification photos made for my passport: how little character and emotion can you express with your face to get the right biometric passport picture what does a face need to be a person, and when does a form become a head standardization is a big topic in our society.
with this idea in mind
i observed the mannequins all over the city without eyes, noses, and mouths.
i started to take their portrait to find out the line between abstract form and head.
using my iphone is an absolutely logical step for me, because i produce most of my pieces on the go while in my everyday life.
the iphone has become a natural part of our daily life, so for me it makes sense to use this camera now.
the heads series was about trying to find a personalty in a form in some way.
this filling of a form with a personality led me to think about the digital personality every one of us builds up by using facebook, twitter, instagram
i asked myself: what do these avatars have to do with our real personalities
the photographs were also taken by my iphone.
for me, the different levels of communication are the main topic of the series.
the question has always been, is digital communication something different than a real, face-to-face communication between human beings
of course, i am aware of these artists, the use of mannequins, and their relevance in art history.
bellmer and cindy sherman have been especially important for my series.
but the most important influence is oskar schlemmer and his theories about the ideal human in space.
i see my work more and more questioning the world and developing into a bigger statement like a complete work subdivided into series and pieces as a part of the whole thing.
i started working with mannequins as a form of placeholder for people and also as a visualization of avatars.
since i have dealt a lot with digital communication in my work i needed a visual form to represent my questions and topics in a visual way.
the series are for me different studies, partly situational, which refer to each other in different ways and are linked to each other.
so in different series the same dolls appear in a different form.
since there is a performative act in the video series not lost in you and one person acts with the avatar, but i consider the basic feeling and question of the work to be something general that everyone knows, i also wanted to abstract and generalize the human body from the person acting in the video, to achieve this i chose the ornamental nylon fabrics.
i believe that digital communication was a great relief at that time as a bridging factor and for me time has proven once again that the purely digital is not a possibility for human interaction.
the human being needs the real counterpart and the direct contact.
at the moment im trying to find further boundaries, both in terms of media and content, and to ask the questions about the real and the artificial in our world even more animalistically.
thats exactly how i am reminding and making aware of topics that occupy me and that i am working on.
i am questioning topics like closeness and intimacy by focusing on the digital realm as it sets the terms for development and changes our way of thinking and behaving.
i am working mostly with mannequins, as placeholders for the human individual, for two reasons.
first because the questions i am dealing with are general rather than personalized.
my work deals with intimacy in that it searches for it in the digital realm.
this searching is not related to one person, or even me, but to everybody.
a living human body would immediately produce relations and possibly identification with the person.
i am interested in conceptual questions of a more general nature; about how to deal with this kind of being in between worlds with their different definitions and rules.
the other reason i am working with mannequins is that i am interested in avatars, as the digital identity of a human being, something which does not have a physical body.
to visualize the interaction between avatars, i needed something closely related to the human body yet that is also abstract and far removed from it.
working with very abstract mannequins was the right step for me to turn questions i was working with into a visual form.
the project gliedermensch 2017 is also a direct reference to art and photography history as an attempt to question continuity related to new notions about the role and function of machines in our times.
the central reference for that series was the romantic author heinrich von kleists essay on the marionette theater.
when i start working on a new piece, i always start with a specific question or content i need to deal with.
with the issues of how our daily lives and society more generally is affected by technology, the iphone was the perfect and most consequent tool to work with.
questioning and reflecting on digital communication and our digital identities, the smartphone is the primary place where these process and interactions happen.
it therefore makes sense to me to work with the smartphone also as a tool, since a lot of the questions i work with are connected to it.
i am discussing where human beings find their self in the digital and real world.
today it is obvious that the digital realm changes our way of dealing with each other, in both positive and negative ways.
and this is what i am trying figure out: what does this change mean to us, and how does it transform the manner in which human beings are dealing with each other.
identity and humanity are two quite contested frames.
they are explored, also in an artistic manner.
to me, as an artist, it is important to include a contemporary feeling of these terms in my work.
this work grew out of the question of whether a conversation is a real conversation when you have it with a bot, and not with a human being.
a bot is not related to a person; it forms its answers and questions out of algorithms, not of interests or intentions.
today we are routinely talking to avatars, bots and human beings.
what is the difference, in terms of quality of the conversation, realness, importance and exchange this is a question i am frequently dealing with in my work.
in the vr-work aporias 2019, i wanted to find out what the essence of a conversation with bots is, so i had to meet them to talk to them.
to come as close as possible to a real meeting, vr was to me the logical choice of medium for creating a situation where i could meet and interact with ais.
vr was something like a border.
to outline and emphasize this border, in the exhibition space i have replicated the setup of the vr-situation in which one encounters the bots, which is a table and chairs where the observer and the bots are sitting on.
i think there are several artist inspiring me, bruce nauman, is very important for me, as sigmar polke, hans bellmer, but also leonardo da vinci, andreas gursky, wolfgang tillmans, oskar schlemmer, barbara kruger.
because i like that the picture is generated from the world we are existing in.
from this basis of that real photograph i am working through my questions, and transform the image into that question.
as i am working with questions and issues related to our current everyday life, i always need to have one foot in this daily world.
i dont see my self as a photographer, but to me this medium is one of the most interesting arenas, because photography gets more and more fluid.
my starting point for a work is not a medium, but a particular content or question.
thus for me the step from photography to video loops, which i have included in several projects, was a logical move, not really a switch between mediums.
